Also by Rick Riordan
Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book One: The Lightning Thief Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book
Two: The Sea of Monsters Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Three: The Titan's Curse Percy Jackson
and the Olympians, Book Four: The Battle of the Labyrinth Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Five:
The Last Olympian The Kane Chronicles, Book One:
The Red Pyramid The Kane Chronicles, Book Two:
The Throne of Fire The Kane Chronicles, Book Three:
The Serpent's Shadow The Heroes of Olympus, Book One:
The Lost Hero The Heroes of Olympus, Book Two:
The Son of Neptune

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Many thanks to Sean Hemingway, curator of Greek and Roman antiquities at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, for helping me follow the Mark of
Athena to its source.

Copyright _ 2012 by Rick Riordan All rights reserved. Published by Disney _
Hyperion Books, an imprint of Disney Book Group. No part of this book may be
reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or
mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage
and retrieval system, without written permission from the publisher. For
information address Disney _ Hyperion Books, 114 Fifth Avenue, New York,
New York 10011-5690.
ISBN 978-1-4231-5516-4
Visit www.disneyhyperionbooks.com

Contents
Also by Rick Riordan
Title Page
Copyright
Dedication
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
XVI
XVII
XVIII
XIX
XX
XXI
XXII
XXIII
XXIV
XXV
XXVI
XXVII
XXVIII
XXIX

XXX
XXXI
XXXII
XXXIII
XXXIV
XXXV
XXXVI
XXXVII
XXXVIII
XXXIX
XL
XLI
XLII
XLIII
XLIV
XLV
XLVI
XLVII
XLVIII
XLIX
L
LI
LII
Glossary
About the Author

To Speedy
Strays and wanderers are often sent by the gods.

UNTIL SHE MET THE EXPLODING STATUE, Annabeth thought she was prepared for
anything.
She'd paced the deck of their flying warship, the Argo II, checking and
double-checking the ballistae to make sure they were locked down. She
confirmed that the white "We come in peace" flag was flying from the mast. She
reviewed the plan with the rest of the crew-and the backup plan, and the
backup plan for the backup plan.
Most important, she pulled aside their war-crazed chaperone, Coach Gleeson
Hedge, and encouraged him to take the morning off in his cabin and watch
reruns of mixed martial arts championships. The last thing they needed as they
flew a magical Greek trireme into a potentially hostile Roman camp was a
middle-aged satyr in gym clothes waving a club and yelling "Die!"
Everything seemed to be in order. Even that mysterious chill she'd been
feeling since the ship launched had dissipated, at least for now.
The warship descended through the clouds, but Annabeth couldn't stop
second-guessing herself. What if this was a bad idea? What if the Romans
panicked and attacked them on sight?
The Argo II definitely did not look friendly. Two hundred feet long, with a

bronze-plated hull, mounted repeating crossbows fore and aft, a flaming metal
dragon for a figurehead, and two rotating ballistae amidships that could fire
explosive bolts powerful enough to blast through concrete_well, it wasn't the
most appropriate ride for a meet-and-greet with the neighbors.
Annabeth had tried to give the Romans a heads-up. She'd asked Leo to send
one of his special inventions-a holographic scroll-to alert their friends inside
the camp. Hopefully the message had gotten through. Leo had wanted to paint a
giant message on the bottom of the hull-WASSUP? with a smiley face-but
Annabeth vetoed the idea. She wasn't sure the Romans had a sense of humor.
Too late to turn back now.
The clouds broke around their hull, revealing the gold-and-green carpet of the
Oakland Hills below them. Annabeth gripped one of the bronze shields that lined
the starboard rail.
Her three crewmates took their places.
On the stern quarterdeck, Leo rushed around like a madman, checking his
gauges and wrestling levers. Most helmsmen would've been satisfied with a
pilot's wheel or a tiller. Leo had also installed a keyboard, monitor, aviation
controls from a Learjet, a dubstep soundboard, and motion-control sensors from
a Nintendo Wii. He could turn the ship by pulling on the throttle, fire weapons
by sampling an album, or raise sails by shaking his Wii controllers really fast.
Even by demigod standards, Leo was seriously ADHD.
Piper paced back and forth between the mainmast and the ballistae, practicing
her lines.
"Lower your weapons," she murmured. "We just want to talk."
Her charmspeak was so powerful, the words flowed over Annabeth, filling
her with the desire to drop her dagger and have a nice long chat.
For a child of Aphrodite, Piper tried hard to play down her beauty. Today she
was dressed in tattered jeans, worn-out sneakers, and a white tank top with pink
Hello Kitty designs. (Maybe as a joke, though Annabeth could never be sure
with Piper.) Her choppy brown hair was braided down the right side with an
eagle's feather.
Then there was Piper's boyfriend-Jason. He stood at the bow on the raised

crossbow platform, where the Romans could easily spot him. His knuckles were
white on the hilt of his golden sword. Otherwise he looked calm for a guy who
was making himself a target. Over his jeans and orange Camp Half-Blood Tshirt, he'd donned a toga and a purple cloak-symbols of his old rank as praetor.
With his wind-ruffled blond hair and his icy blue eyes, he looked ruggedly
handsome and in control-just like a son of Jupiter should. He'd grown up at
Camp Jupiter, so hopefully his familiar face would make the Romans hesitant to
blow the ship out of the sky.
Annabeth tried to hide it, but she still didn't completely trust the guy. He
acted too perfect-always following the rules, always doing the honorable thing.
He even looked too perfect. In the back of her mind, she had a nagging thought:
What if this is a trick and he betrays us? What if we sail into Camp Jupiter, and
he says, Hey, Romans! Check out these prisoners and this cool ship I brought
you!
Annabeth doubted that would happen. Still, she couldn't look at him without
getting a bitter taste in her mouth. He'd been part of Hera's forced "exchange
program" to introduce the two camps. Her Most Annoying Majesty, Queen of
Olympus, had convinced the other gods that their two sets of children-Roman
and Greek-had to combine forces to save the world from the evil goddess
Gaea, who was awakening from the earth, and her horrible children the giants.
Without warning, Hera had plucked up Percy Jackson, Annabeth's boyfriend,
wiped his memory, and sent him to the Roman camp. In exchange, the Greeks
had gotten Jason. None of that was Jason's fault; but every time Annabeth saw
him, she remembered how much she missed Percy.
Percy_who was somewhere below them right now.
Oh, gods. Panic welled up inside her. She forced it down. She couldn't afford
to get overwhelmed.
I'm a child of Athena, she told herself. I have to stick to my plan and not get
distracted.
She felt it again-that familiar shiver, as if a psychotic snowman had crept up
behind her and was breathing down her neck. She turned, but no one was there.
Must be her nerves. Even in a world of gods and monsters, Annabeth couldn't

believe a new warship would be haunted. The Argo II was well protected. The
Celestial bronze shields along the rail were enchanted to ward off monsters, and
their onboard satyr, Coach Hedge, would have sniffed out any intruders.
Annabeth wished she could pray to her mother for guidance, but that wasn't
possible now. Not after last month, when she'd had that horrible encounter with
her mom and gotten the worst present of her life._
The cold pressed closer. She thought she heard a faint voice in the wind,
laughing. Every muscle in her body tensed. Something was about to go terribly
wrong.
She almost ordered Leo to reverse course. Then, in the valley below, horns
sounded. The Romans had spotted them.
Annabeth thought she knew what to expect. Jason had described Camp
Jupiter to her in great detail. Still, she had trouble believing her eyes. Ringed by
the Oakland Hills, the valley was at least twice the size of Camp Half-Blood. A
small river snaked around one side and curled toward the center like a capital
letter G, emptying into a sparkling blue lake.
Directly below the ship, nestled at the edge of the lake, the city of New Rome
gleamed in the sunlight. She recognized landmarks Jason had told her about-
the hippodrome, the coliseum, the temples and parks, the neighborhood of Seven
Hills with its winding streets, colorful villas, and flowering gardens.
She saw evidence of the Romans' recent battle with an army of monsters. The
dome was cracked open on a building she guessed was the Senate House. The
forum's broad plaza was pitted with craters. Some fountains and statues were in
ruins.
Dozens of kids in togas were streaming out of the Senate House to get a
better view of the Argo II. More Romans emerged from the shops and cafes,
gawking and pointing as the ship descended.
About half a mile to the west, where the horns were blowing, a Roman fort
stood on a hill. It looked just like the illustrations Annabeth had seen in military
history books-with a defensive trench lined with spikes, high walls, and
watchtowers armed with scorpion ballistae. Inside, perfect rows of white
barracks lined the main road-the Via Principalis.

A column of demigods emerged from the gates, their armor and spears
glinting as they hurried toward the city. In the midst of their ranks was an actual
war elephant.
Annabeth wanted to land the Argo II before those troops arrived, but the
ground was still several hundred feet below. She scanned the crowd, hoping to
catch a glimpse of Percy.
Then something behind her went BOOM!
The explosion almost knocked her overboard. She whirled and found herself eye
to eye with an angry statue.
"Unacceptable!" he shrieked.
Apparently he had exploded into existence, right there on the deck. Sulfurous
yellow smoke rolled off his shoulders. Cinders popped around his curly hair.
From the waist down, he was nothing but a square marble pedestal. From the
waist up, he was a muscular human figure in a carved toga.
"I will not have weapons inside the Pomerian Line!" he announced in a fussy
teacher voice. "I certainly will not have Greeks!"
Jason shot Annabeth a look that said, I've got this.
"Terminus," he said. "It's me. Jason Grace."
"Oh, I remember you, Jason!" Terminus grumbled. "I thought you had better
sense than to consort with the enemies of Rome!"
"But they're not enemies-"
"That's right," Piper jumped in. "We just want to talk. If we could-"
"Ha!" snapped the statue. "Don't try that charmspeak on me, young lady. And
put down that dagger before I slap it out of your hands!"
Piper glanced at her bronze dagger, which she'd apparently forgotten she was
holding. "Um_okay. But how would you slap it? You don't have any arms."
"Impertinence!" There was a sharp POP and a flash of yellow. Piper yelped
and dropped the dagger, which was now smoking and sparking.
"Lucky for you I've just been through a battle," Terminus announced. "If I
were at full strength, I would've blasted this flying monstrosity out of the sky
already!"

"Hold up." Leo stepped forward, wagging his Wii controller. "Did you just
call my ship a monstrosity? I know you didn't do that."
The idea that Leo might attack the statue with his gaming device was enough
to snap Annabeth out of her shock.
"Let's all calm down." She raised her hands to show she had no weapons. "I
take it you're Terminus, the god of boundaries. Jason told me you protect the
city of New Rome, right? I'm Annabeth Chase, daughter of-"
"Oh, I know who you are!" The statue glared at her with its blank white eyes.
"A child of Athena, Minerva's Greek form. Scandalous! You Greeks have no
sense of decency. We Romans know the proper place for that goddess."
Annabeth clenched her jaw. This statue wasn't making it easy to be
diplomatic. "What exactly do you mean, that goddess? And what's so
scandalous about-"
"Right!" Jason interrupted. "Anyway, Terminus, we're here on a mission of
peace. We'd love permission to land so we can-"
"Impossible!" the god squeaked. "Lay down your weapons and surrender!
Leave my city immediately!"
"Which is it?" Leo asked. "Surrender, or leave?"
"Both!" Terminus said. "Surrender, then leave. I am slapping your face for
asking such a stupid question, you ridiculous boy! Do you feel that?"
"Wow." Leo studied Terminus with professional interest. "You're wound up
pretty tight. You got any gears in there that need loosening? I could take a look."
He exchanged the Wii controller for a screwdriver from his magic tool belt
and tapped the statue's pedestal.
"Stop that!" Terminus insisted. Another small explosion made Leo drop his
screwdriver. "Weapons are not allowed on Roman soil inside the Pomerian
Line."
"The what?" Piper asked.
"City limits," Jason translated.
"And this entire ship is a weapon!" Terminus said. "You cannot land!"
Down in the valley, the legion reinforcements were halfway to the city. The
crowd in the forum was over a hundred strong now. Annabeth scanned the faces

and_oh, gods. She saw him. He was walking toward the ship with his arms
around two other kids like they were best buddies-a stout boy with a black
buzz cut, and a girl wearing a Roman cavalry helmet. Percy looked so at ease, so
happy. He wore a purple cape just like Jason's-the mark of a praetor.
Annabeth's heart did a gymnastics routine.
"Leo, stop the ship," she ordered.
"What?"
"You heard me. Keep us right where we are."
Leo pulled out his controller and yanked it upward. All ninety oars froze in
place. The ship stopped sinking.
"Terminus," Annabeth said, "there's no rule against hovering over New
Rome, is there?"
The statue frowned. "Well, no_"
"We can keep the ship aloft," Annabeth said. "We'll use a rope ladder to
reach the forum. That way, the ship won't be on Roman soil. Not technically."
The statue seemed to ponder this. Annabeth wondered if he was scratching
his chin with imaginary hands.
"I like technicalities," he admitted. "Still_"
"All our weapons will stay aboard the ship," Annabeth promised. "I assume
the Romans-even those reinforcements marching toward us-will also have to
honor your rules inside the Pomerian Line if you tell them to?"
"Of course!" Terminus said. "Do I look like I tolerate rule breakers?"
"Uh, Annabeth_" Leo said. "You sure this is a good idea?"
She closed her fists to keep them from shaking. That cold feeling was still
there. It floated just behind her, and now that Terminus was no longer shouting
and causing explosions, she thought she could hear the presence laughing, as if it
was delighted by the bad choices she was making.
But Percy was down there_he was so close. She had to reach him.
"It'll be fine," she said. "No one will be armed. We can talk in peace.
Terminus will make sure each side obeys the rules." She looked at the marble
statue. "Do we have an agreement?"
Terminus sniffed. "I suppose. For now. You may climb down your ladder to

New Rome, daughter of Athena. Please try not to destroy my town."

A SEA OF HASTILY ASSEMBLED demigods parted for Annabeth as she walked
through the forum. Some looked tense, some nervous. Some were bandaged
from their recent battle with the giants, but no one was armed. No one attacked.
Entire families had gathered to see the newcomers. Annabeth saw couples
with babies, toddlers clinging to their parents' legs, even some elderly folks in a
combination of Roman robes and modern clothes. Were all of them demigods?
Annabeth suspected so, though she'd never seen a place like this. At Camp HalfBlood, most demigods were teens. If they survived long enough to graduate from
high school, they either stayed on as counselors or left to start lives as best they
could in the mortal world. Here, it was an entire multigenerational community.
At the far end of the crowd, Annabeth spotted Tyson the Cyclops and Percy's
hellhound, Mrs. O'Leary-who had been the first scouting party from Camp
Half-Blood to reach Camp Jupiter. They looked to be in good spirits. Tyson
waved and grinned. He was wearing an SPQR banner like a giant bib.
Some part of Annabeth's mind registered how beautiful the city was-the
smells from the bakeries, the gurgling fountains, the flowers blooming in the
gardens. And the architecture_gods, the architecture-gilded marble columns,
dazzling mosaics, monumental arches, and terraced villas.

In front of her, the demigods made way for a girl in full Roman armor and a
purple cape. Dark hair tumbled across her shoulders. Her eyes were as black as
obsidian.
Reyna.
Jason had described her well. Even without that, Annabeth would have
singled her out as the leader. Medals decorated her armor. She carried herself
with such confidence the other demigods backed away and averted their gaze.
Annabeth recognized something else in her face, too-in the hard set of her
mouth and the deliberate way she raised her chin like she was ready to accept
any challenge. Reyna was forcing a look of courage, while holding back a
mixture of hopefulness and worry and fear that she couldn't show in public.
Annabeth knew that expression. She saw it every time she looked in a mirror.
The two girls considered each other. Annabeth's friends fanned out on either
side. The Romans murmured Jason's name, staring at him in awe.
Then someone else appeared from the crowd, and Annabeth's vision
tunneled.
Percy smiled at her-that sarcastic, troublemaker smile that had annoyed her
for years but eventually had become endearing. His sea-green eyes were as
gorgeous as she remembered. His dark hair was swept to one side, like he'd just
come from a walk on the beach. He looked even better than he had six months
ago-tanner and taller, leaner and more muscular.
Annabeth was too stunned to move. She felt that if she got any closer to him,
all the molecules in her body might combust. She'd secretly had a crush on him
since they were twelve years old. Last summer, she'd fallen for him hard.
They'd been a happy couple for four months-and then he'd disappeared.
During their separation, something had happened to Annabeth's feelings.
They'd grown painfully intense-like she'd been forced to withdraw from a lifesaving medication. Now she wasn't sure which was more excruciating-living
with that horrible absence, or being with him again.
The praetor Reyna straightened. With apparent reluctance, she turned toward
Jason.
"Jason Grace, my former colleague_" She spoke the word colleague like it

was a dangerous thing. "I welcome you home. And these, your friends-"
Annabeth didn't mean to, but she surged forward. Percy rushed toward her at
the same time. The crowd tensed. Some reached for swords that weren't there.
Percy threw his arms around her. They kissed, and for a moment nothing else
mattered. An asteroid could have hit the planet and wiped out all life, and
Annabeth wouldn't have cared.
Percy smelled of ocean air. His lips were salty.
Seaweed Brain, she thought giddily.
Percy pulled away and studied her face. "Gods, I never thought-"
Annabeth grabbed his wrist and flipped him over her shoulder. He slammed
into the stone pavement. Romans cried out. Some surged forward, but Reyna
shouted, "Hold! Stand down!"
Annabeth put her knee on Percy's chest. She pushed her forearm against his
throat. She didn't care what the Romans thought. A white-hot lump of anger
expanded in her chest-a tumor of worry and bitterness that she'd been carrying
around since last autumn.
"If you ever leave me again," she said, her eyes stinging, "I swear to all the
gods-"
Percy had the nerve to laugh. Suddenly the lump of heated emotions melted
inside Annabeth.
"Consider me warned," Percy said. "I missed you, too."
Annabeth rose and helped him to his feet. She wanted to kiss him again so
badly, but she managed to restrain herself.
Jason cleared his throat. "So, yeah._It's good to be back."
He introduced Reyna to Piper, who looked a little miffed that she hadn't
gotten to say the lines she'd been practicing, then to Leo, who grinned and
flashed a peace sign.
"And this is Annabeth," Jason said. "Uh, normally she doesn't judo-flip
people."
Reyna's eyes sparkled. "You sure you're not a Roman, Annabeth? Or an
Amazon?"
Annabeth didn't know if that was a compliment, but she held out her hand. "I

only attack my boyfriend like that," she promised. "Pleased to meet you."
Reyna clasped her hand firmly. "It seems we have a lot to discuss.
Centurions!"
A few of the Roman campers hustled forward-apparently the senior officers.
Two kids appeared at Percy's side, the same ones Annabeth had seen him
chumming around with earlier. The burly Asian guy with the buzz cut was about
fifteen. He was cute in a sort of oversized-cuddly-panda-bear way. The girl was
younger, maybe thirteen, with amber eyes and chocolate skin and long curly
hair. Her cavalry helmet was tucked under her arm.
Annabeth could tell from their body language that they felt close to Percy.
They stood next to him protectively, like they'd already shared many adventures.
She fought down a twinge of jealousy. Was it possible Percy and this girl_no.
The chemistry between the three of them wasn't like that. Annabeth had spent
her whole life learning to read people. It was a survival skill. If she had to guess,
she'd say the big Asian guy was the girl's boyfriend, though she suspected they
hadn't been together long.
There was one thing she didn't understand: what was the girl staring at? She
kept frowning in Piper and Leo's direction, like she recognized one of them and
the memory was painful.
Meanwhile, Reyna was giving orders to her officers. "_tell the legion to
stand down. Dakota, alert the spirits in the kitchen. Tell them to prepare a
welcome feast. And, Octavian-"
"You're letting these intruders into the camp?" A tall guy with stringy blond
hair elbowed his way forward. "Reyna, the security risks-"
"We're not taking them to the camp, Octavian." Reyna flashed him a stern
look. "We'll eat here, in the forum."
"Oh, much better," Octavian grumbled. He seemed to be the only one who
didn't defer to Reyna as his superior, despite the fact that he was scrawny and
pale and for some reason had three teddy bears hanging from his belt. "You want
us to relax in the shadow of their warship."
"These are our guests." Reyna clipped off every word. "We will welcome
them, and we will talk to them. As augur, you should burn an offering to thank

the gods for bringing Jason back to us safely."
"Good idea," Percy put in. "Go burn your bears, Octavian."
Reyna looked like she was trying not to smile. "You have my orders. Go."
The officers dispersed. Octavian shot Percy a look of absolute loathing. Then
he gave Annabeth a suspicious once-over and stalked away.
Percy slipped his hand into Annabeth's. "Don't worry about Octavian," he
said. "Most of the Romans are good people-like Frank and Hazel here, and
Reyna. We'll be fine."
Annabeth felt as if someone had draped a cold washcloth across her neck.
She heard that whispering laughter again, as if the presence had followed her
from the ship.
She looked up at the Argo II. Its massive bronze hull glittered in the sunlight.
Part of her wanted to kidnap Percy right now, climb on board, and get out of
here while they still could.
She couldn't shake the feeling that something was about to go terribly wrong.
And there was no way she would ever risk losing Percy again.
"We'll be fine," she repeated, trying to believe it.
"Excellent," Reyna said. She turned to Jason, and Annabeth thought there
was a hungry sort of gleam in her eyes. "Let's talk, and we can have a proper
reunion."

ANNABETH WISHED SHE HAD AN APPETITE, because the Romans knew how to eat.
Sets of couches and low tables were carted into the forum until it resembled a
furniture showroom. Romans lounged in groups of ten or twenty, talking and
laughing while wind spirits-aurae-swirled overhead, bringing an endless
assortment of pizzas, sandwiches, chips, cold drinks, and fresh-baked cookies.
Drifting through the crowd were purple ghosts-Lares-in togas and legionnaire
armor. Around the edges of the feast, satyrs (no, fauns, Annabeth thought)
trotted from table to table, panhandling for food and spare change. In the nearby
fields, the war elephant frolicked with Mrs. O'Leary, and children played tag
around the statues of Terminus that lined the city limits.
The whole scene was so familiar yet so completely alien that it gave
Annabeth vertigo.
All she wanted to do was be with Percy-preferably alone. She knew she
would have to wait. If their quest was going to succeed, they needed these
Romans, which meant getting to know them and building some goodwill.
Reyna and a few of her officers (including the blond kid Octavian, freshly
back from burning a teddy bear for the gods) sat with Annabeth and her crew.
Percy joined them with his two new friends, Frank and Hazel.

As a tornado of food platters settled onto the table, Percy leaned over and
whispered, "I want to show you around New Rome. Just you and me. The place
is incredible."
Annabeth should've felt thrilled. Just you and me was exactly what she
wanted. Instead, resentment swelled in her throat. How could Percy talk so
enthusiastically about this place? What about Camp Half-Blood-their camp,
their home?
She tried not to stare at the new marks on Percy's forearm-an SPQR tattoo
like Jason's. At Camp Half-Blood, demigods got bead necklaces to
commemorate years of training. Here, the Romans burned a tattoo into your
flesh, as if to say: You belong to us. Permanently.
She swallowed back some biting comments. "Okay. Sure."
"I've been thinking," he said nervously. "I had this idea-"
He stopped as Reyna called a toast to friendship.
After introductions all around, the Romans and Annabeth's crew began
exchanging stories. Jason explained how he'd arrived at Camp Half-Blood
without his memory, and how he'd gone on a quest with Piper and Leo to rescue
the goddess Hera (or Juno, take your pick-she was equally annoying in Greek
or Roman) from imprisonment at the Wolf House in northern California.
"Impossible!" Octavian broke in. "That's our most sacred place. If the giants
had imprisoned a goddess there-"
"They would've destroyed her," Piper said. "And blamed it on the Greeks,
and started a war between the camps. Now, be quiet and let Jason finish."
Octavian opened his mouth, but no sound came out. Annabeth really loved
Piper's charmspeak. She noticed Reyna looking back and forth between Jason
and Piper, her brow creased, as if just beginning to realize the two of them were
a couple.
"So," Jason continued, "that's how we found out about the earth goddess
Gaea. She's still half asleep, but she's the one freeing the monsters from
Tartarus and raising the giants. Porphyrion, the big leader dude we fought at the
Wolf House: he said he was retreating to the ancient lands-Greece itself. He
plans on awakening Gaea and destroying the gods by_what did he call it?

Pulling up their roots."
Percy nodded thoughtfully. "Gaea's been busy over here, too. We had our
own encounter with Queen Dirt Face."
Percy recounted his side of the story. He talked about waking up at the Wolf
House with no memories except for one name-Annabeth.
When she heard that, Annabeth had to try hard not to cry. Percy told them
how he'd traveled to Alaska with Frank and Hazel-how they'd defeated the
giant Alcyoneus, freed the death god Thanatos, and returned with the lost golden
eagle standard of the Roman camp to repel an attack by the giants' army.
When Percy had finished, Jason whistled appreciatively. "No wonder they
made you praetor."
Octavian snorted. "Which means we now have three praetors! The rules
clearly state we can only have two!"
"On the bright side," Percy said, "both Jason and I outrank you, Octavian. So
we can both tell you to shut up."
Octavian turned as purple as a Roman T-shirt. Jason gave Percy a fist bump.
Even Reyna managed a smile, though her eyes were stormy.
"We'll have to figure out the extra praetor problem later," she said. "Right
now we have more serious issues to deal with."
"I'll step aside for Jason," Percy said easily. "It's no biggie."
"No biggie?" Octavian choked. "The praetorship of Rome is no biggie?"
Percy ignored him and turned to Jason. "You're Thalia Grace's brother, huh?
Wow. You guys look nothing alike."
"Yeah, I noticed," Jason said. "Anyway, thanks for helping my camp while I
was gone. You did an awesome job."
"Back at you," Percy said.
Annabeth kicked his shin. She hated to interrupt a budding bromance, but
Reyna was right: they had serious things to discuss. "We should talk about the
Great Prophecy. It sounds like the Romans are aware of it too?"
Reyna nodded. "We call it the Prophecy of Seven. Octavian, you have it
committed to memory?"
"Of course," he said. "But, Reyna-"

"Recite it, please. In English, not Latin."
Octavian sighed. "Seven half-bloods shall answer the call. To storm or fire
the world must fall-"
"An oath to keep with a final breath," Annabeth continued. "And foes bear
arms to the Doors of Death."
Everyone stared at her-except for Leo, who had constructed a pinwheel out
of aluminum foil taco wrappers and was sticking it into passing wind spirits.
Annabeth wasn't sure why she had blurted out the lines of the prophecy.
She'd just felt compelled.
The big kid, Frank, sat forward, staring at her in fascination, as if she'd
grown a third eye. "Is it true you're a child of Min-I mean, Athena?"
"Yes," she said, suddenly feeling defensive. "Why is that such a surprise?"
Octavian scoffed. "If you're truly a child of the wisdom goddess-"
"Enough," Reyna snapped. "Annabeth is what she says. She's here in peace.
Besides_" She gave Annabeth a look of grudging respect. "Percy has spoken
highly of you."
The undertones in Reyna's voice took Annabeth a moment to decipher. Percy
looked down, suddenly interested in his cheeseburger.
Annabeth's face felt hot. Oh, gods_Reyna had tried to make a move on
Percy. That explained the tinge of bitterness, maybe even envy, in her words.
Percy had turned her down for Annabeth.
At that moment, Annabeth forgave her ridiculous boyfriend for everything
he'd ever done wrong. She wanted to throw her arms around him, but she
commanded herself to stay cool.
"Uh, thanks," she told Reyna. "At any rate, some of the prophecy is
becoming clear. Foes bearing arms to the Doors of Death_that means Romans
and Greeks. We have to combine forces to find those doors."
Hazel, the girl with the cavalry helmet and the long curly hair, picked up
something next to her plate. It looked like a large ruby; but before Annabeth
could be sure, Hazel slipped it into the pocket of her denim shirt.
"My brother, Nico, went looking for the doors," she said.
"Wait," Annabeth said. "Nico di Angelo? He's your brother?"

Hazel nodded as if this were obvious. A dozen more questions crowded into
Annabeth's head, but it was already spinning like Leo's pinwheel. She decided
to let the matter go. "Okay. You were saying?"
"He disappeared." Hazel moistened her lips. "I'm afraid_I'm not sure, but I
think something's happened to him."
"We'll look for him," Percy promised. "We have to find the Doors of Death
anyway. Thanatos told us we'd find both answers in Rome-like, the original
Rome. That's on the way to Greece, right?"
"Thanatos told you this?" Annabeth tried to wrap her mind around that idea.
"The death god?"
She'd met many gods. She'd even been to the Underworld; but Percy's story
about freeing the incarnation of death itself really creeped her out.
Percy took a bite of his burger. "Now that Death is free, monsters will
disintegrate and return to Tartarus again like they used to. But as long as the
Doors of Death are open, they'll just keep coming back."
Piper twisted the feather in her hair. "Like water leaking through a dam," she
suggested.
"Yeah." Percy smiled. "We've got a dam hole."
"What?" Piper asked.
"Nothing," he said. "Inside joke. The point is we'll have to find the doors and
close them before we can head to Greece. It's the only way we'll stand a chance
of defeating the giants and making sure they stay defeated."
Reyna plucked an apple from a passing fruit tray. She turned it in her fingers,
studying the dark red surface. "You propose an expedition to Greece in your
warship. You do realize that the ancient lands-and the Mare Nostrum-are
dangerous?"
"Mary who?" Leo asked.
"Mare Nostrum," Jason explained. "Our Sea. It's what the Ancient Romans
called the Mediterranean."
Reyna nodded. "The territory that was once the Roman Empire is not only the
birthplace of the gods. It's also the ancestral home of the monsters, Titans and
giants_and worse things. As dangerous as travel is for demigods here in

America, there it would be ten times worse."
"You said Alaska would be bad," Percy reminded her. "We survived that."
Reyna shook her head. Her fingernails cut little crescents into the apple as she
turned it. "Percy, traveling in the Mediterranean is a different level of danger
altogether. It's been off limits to Roman demigods for centuries. No hero in his
right mind would go there."
"Then we're good!" Leo grinned over the top of his pinwheel. "Because
we're all crazy, right? Besides, the Argo II is a top-of-the-line warship. She'll get
us through."
"We'll have to hurry," Jason added. "I don't know exactly what the giants are
planning, but Gaea is growing more conscious all the time. She's invading
dreams, appearing in weird places, summoning more and more powerful
monsters. We have to stop the giants before they can wake her up fully."
Annabeth shuddered. She'd had her own share of nightmares lately.
"Seven half-bloods must answer the call," she said. "It needs to be a mix
from both our camps. Jason, Piper, Leo, and me. That's four."
"And me," Percy said. "Along with Hazel and Frank. That's seven."
"What?" Octavian shot to his feet. "We're just supposed to accept that?
Without a vote in the senate? Without a proper debate? Without-"
"Percy!" Tyson the Cyclops bounded toward them with Mrs. O'Leary at his
heels. On the hellhound's back sat the skinniest harpy Annabeth had ever seen-
a sickly-looking girl with stringy red hair, a sackcloth dress, and red-feathered
wings.
Annabeth didn't know where the harpy had come from, but her heart warmed
to see Tyson in his tattered flannel and denim with the backward SPQR banner
across his chest. She'd had some pretty bad experiences with Cyclopes, but
Tyson was a sweetheart. He was also Percy's half brother (long story), which
made him almost like family.
Tyson stopped by their couch and wrung his meaty hands. His big brown eye
was full of concern. "Ella is scared," he said.
"N-n-no more boats," the harpy muttered to herself, picking furiously at her
feathers. "Titanic, Lusitania, Pax_boats are not for harpies."

Leo squinted. He looked at Hazel, who was seated next to him. "Did that
chicken girl just compare my ship to the Titanic?"
"She's not a chicken." Hazel averted her eyes, as if Leo made her nervous.
"Ella's a harpy. She's just a little_high-strung."
"Ella is pretty," Tyson said. "And scared. We need to take her away, but she
will not go on the ship."
"No ships," Ella repeated. She looked straight at Annabeth. "Bad luck. There
she is. Wisdom's daughter walks alone-"
"Ella!" Frank stood suddenly. "Maybe it's not the best time-"
"The Mark of Athena burns through Rome," Ella continued, cupping her
hands over her ears and raising her voice. "Twins snuff out the angel's breath,
Who holds the key to endless death. Giants' bane stands gold and pale, Won
through pain from a woven jail."
The effect was like someone dropping a flash grenade on the table. Everyone
stared at the harpy. No one spoke. Annabeth's heart was pounding. The Mark of
Athena_She resisted the urge to check her pocket, but she could feel the silver
coin growing warmer-the cursed gift from her mother. Follow the Mark of
Athena. Avenge me.
Around them, the sounds of the feast continued, but muted and distant, as if
their little cluster of couches had slipped into a quieter dimension.
Percy was the first to recover. He stood and took Tyson's arm.
"I know!" he said with feigned enthusiasm. "How about you take Ella to get
some fresh air? You and Mrs. O'Leary-"
"Hold on." Octavian gripped one of his teddy bears, strangling it with
shaking hands. His eyes fixed on Ella. "What was that she said? It sounded like
-"
"Ella reads a lot," Frank blurted out. "We found her at a library."
"Yes!" Hazel said. "Probably just something she read in a book."
"Books," Ella muttered helpfully. "Ella likes books."
Now that she'd said her piece, the harpy seemed more relaxed. She sat crosslegged on Mrs. O'Leary's back, preening her wings.
Annabeth gave Percy a curious glance. Obviously, he and Frank and Hazel

were hiding something. Just as obviously, Ella had recited a prophecy-a
prophecy that concerned her.
Percy's expression said, Help.
"That was a prophecy," Octavian insisted. "It sounded like a prophecy."
No one answered.
Annabeth wasn't exactly sure what was going on, but she understood that
Percy was on the verge of big trouble.
She forced a laugh. "Really, Octavian? Maybe harpies are different here, on
the Roman side. Ours have just enough intelligence to clean cabins and cook
lunches. Do yours usually foretell the future? Do you consult them for your
auguries?"
Her words had the intended effect. The Roman officers laughed nervously.
Some sized up Ella, then looked at Octavian and snorted. The idea of a chicken
lady issuing prophecies was apparently just as ridiculous to Romans as it was to
Greeks.
"I, uh_" Octavian dropped his teddy bear. "No, but-"
"She's just spouting lines from some book," Annabeth said, "like Hazel
suggested. Besides, we already have a real prophecy to worry about."
She turned to Tyson. "Percy's right. Why don't you take Ella and Mrs.
O'Leary and shadow-travel somewhere for a while. Is Ella okay with that?"
"'Large dogs are good,'" Ella said. "Old Yeller, 1957, screenplay by Fred
Gipson and William Tunberg."
Annabeth wasn't sure how to take that answer, but Percy smiled like the
problem was solved.
"Great!" Percy said. "We'll Iris-message you guys when we're done and
catch up with you later."
The Romans looked at Reyna, waiting for her ruling. Annabeth held her
breath.
Reyna had an excellent poker face. She studied Ella, but Annabeth couldn't
guess what she was thinking.
"Fine," the praetor said at last. "Go."
"Yay!" Tyson went around the couches and gave everyone a big hug-even

Octavian, who didn't look happy about it. Then he climbed on Mrs. O'Leary's
back with Ella, and the hellhound bounded out of the forum. They dove straight
into a shadow on the Senate House wall and disappeared.
"Well." Reyna set down her uneaten apple. "Octavian is right about one
thing. We must gain the senate's approval before we let any of our legionnaires
go on a quest-especially one as dangerous as you're suggesting."
"This whole thing smells of treachery," Octavian grumbled. "That trireme is
not a ship of peace!"
"Come aboard, man," Leo offered. "I'll give you a tour. You can steer the
boat, and if you're really good I'll give you a little paper captain's hat to wear."
Octavian's nostrils flared. "How dare you-"
"It's a good idea," Reyna said. "Octavian, go with him. See the ship. We'll
convene a senate meeting in one hour."
"But_" Octavian stopped. Apparently he could tell from Reyna's expression
that further arguing would not be good for his health. "Fine."
Leo got up. He turned to Annabeth, and his smile changed. It happened so
quickly, Annabeth thought she'd imagined it; but just for a moment someone
else seemed to be standing in Leo's place, smiling coldly with a cruel light in his
eyes. Then Annabeth blinked, and Leo was just regular old Leo again, with his
usual impish grin.
"Back soon," he promised. "This is gonna be epic."
A horrible chill settled over her. As Leo and Octavian headed for the rope
ladder, she thought about calling them back-but how could she explain that?
Tell everyone she was going crazy, seeing things and feeling cold?
The wind spirits began clearing the plates.
"Uh, Reyna," Jason said, "if you don't mind, I'd like to show Piper around
before the senate meeting. She's never seen New Rome."
Reyna's expression hardened.
Annabeth wondered how Jason could be so dense. Was it possible he really
didn't understand how much Reyna liked him? It was obvious enough to
Annabeth. Asking to show his new girlfriend around Reyna's city was rubbing
salt in a wound.

"Of course," Reyna said coldly.
Percy took Annabeth's hand. "Yeah, me, too. I'd like to show Annabeth-"
"No," Reyna snapped.
Percy knit his eyebrows. "Sorry?"
"I'd like a few words with Annabeth," Reyna said. "Alone. If you don't mind,
my fellow praetor."
Her tone made it clear she wasn't really asking permission.
The chill spread down Annabeth's back. She wondered what Reyna was up
to. Maybe the praetor didn't like the idea of two guys who had rejected her
giving their girlfriends tours of her city. Or maybe there was something she
wanted to say in private. Either way, Annabeth was reluctant to be alone and
unarmed with the Roman leader.
"Come, daughter of Athena." Reyna rose from her couch. "Walk with me."

ANNABETH WANTED TO HATE NEW ROME. But as an aspiring architect, she
couldn't help admiring the terraced gardens, the fountains and temples, the
winding cobblestone streets and gleaming white villas. After the Titan War last
summer, she'd gotten her dream job of redesigning the palaces of Mount
Olympus. Now, walking through this miniature city, she kept thinking, I should
have made a dome like that. I love the way those columns lead into that
courtyard. Whoever designed New Rome had clearly poured a lot of time and
love into the project.
"We have the best architects and builders in the world," Reyna said, as if
reading her thoughts. "Rome always did, in the ancient times. Many demigods
stay on to live here after their time in the legion. They go to our university. They
settle down to raise families. Percy seemed interested in this fact."
Annabeth wondered what that meant. She must have scowled more fiercely
than she realized, because Reyna laughed.
"You're a warrior, all right," the praetor said. "You've got fire in your eyes."
"Sorry." Annabeth tried to tone down the glare.
"Don't be. I'm the daughter of Bellona."
"Roman goddess of war?"

Reyna nodded. She turned and whistled like she was hailing a cab. A moment
later, two metal dogs raced toward them-automaton greyhounds, one silver and
one gold. They brushed against Reyna's legs and regarded Annabeth with
glistening ruby eyes.
"My pets," Reyna explained. "Aurum and Argentum. You don't mind if they
walk with us?"
Again, Annabeth got the feeling it wasn't really a request. She noted that the
greyhounds had teeth like steel arrowheads. Maybe weapons weren't allowed
inside the city, but Reyna's pets could still tear her to pieces if they chose.
Reyna led her to an outdoor cafe, where the waiter clearly knew her. He
smiled and handed her a to-go cup, then offered one to Annabeth.
"Would you like some?" Reyna asked. "They make wonderful hot chocolate.
Not really a Roman drink-"
"But chocolate is universal," Annabeth said.
"Exactly."
It was a warm June afternoon, but Annabeth accepted the cup with thanks.
The two of them walked on, Reyna's gold and silver dogs roaming nearby.
"In our camp," Reyna said, "Athena is Minerva. Are you familiar with how
her Roman form is different?"
Annabeth hadn't really considered it before. She remembered the way
Terminus had called Athena that goddess, as if she were scandalous. Octavian
had acted like Annabeth's very existence was an insult.
"I take it Minerva isn't_uh, quite as respected here?"
Reyna blew steam from her cup. "We respect Minerva. She's the goddess of
crafts and wisdom_but she isn't really a goddess of war. Not for Romans. She's
also a maiden goddess, like Diana_the one you call Artemis. You won't find
any children of Minerva here. The idea that Minerva would have children-
frankly, it's a little shocking to us."
"Oh." Annabeth felt her face flush. She didn't want to get into the details of
Athena's children-how they were born straight from the mind of the goddess,
just as Athena herself had sprung from the head of Zeus. Talking about that
always made Annabeth feel self-conscious, like she was some sort of freak.

People usually asked her whether or not she had a belly button, since she had
been born magically. Of course she had a belly button. She couldn't explain
how. She didn't really want to know.
"I understand that you Greeks don't see things the same way," Reyna
continued. "But Romans take vows of maidenhood very seriously. The Vestal
Virgins, for instance_if they broke their vows and fell in love with anyone, they
would be buried alive. So the idea that a maiden goddess would have children
-"
"Got it." Annabeth's hot chocolate suddenly tasted like dust. No wonder the
Romans had been giving her strange looks. "I'm not supposed to exist. And even
if your camp had children of Minerva-"
"They wouldn't be like you," Reyna said. "They might be craftsmen, artists,
maybe advisers, but not warriors. Not leaders of dangerous quests."
Annabeth started to object that she wasn't the leader of the quest. Not
officially. But she wondered if her friends on the Argo II would agree. The past
few days, they had been looking to her for orders-even Jason, who could have
pulled rank as the son of Jupiter, and Coach Hedge, who didn't take orders from
anyone.
"There's more." Reyna snapped her fingers, and her golden dog, Aurum,
trotted over. The praetor stroked his ears. "The harpy Ella_it was a prophecy
she spoke. We both know that, don't we?"
Annabeth swallowed. Something about Aurum's ruby eyes made her uneasy.
She had heard that dogs could smell fear, even detect changes in a human's
breathing and heartbeat. She didn't know if that applied to magical metal dogs,
but she decided it would be better to tell the truth.
"It sounded like a prophecy," she admitted. "But I've never met Ella before
today, and I've never heard those lines exactly."
"I have," Reyna murmured. "At least some of them-"
A few yards away, the silver dog barked. A group of children spilled out of a
nearby alleyway and gathered around Argentum, petting the dog and laughing,
unfazed by its razor-sharp teeth.
"We should move on," Reyna said.

They wound their way up the hill. The greyhounds followed, leaving the
children behind. Annabeth kept glancing at Reyna's face. A vague memory
started tugging at her-the way Reyna brushed her hair behind her ear, the silver
ring she wore with the torch and sword design.
"We've met before," Annabeth ventured. "You were younger, I think."
Reyna gave her a dry smile. "Very good. Percy didn't remember me. Of
course you spoke mostly with my older sister Hylla, who is now queen of the
Amazons. She left just this morning, before you arrived. At any rate, when we
last met, I was a mere handmaiden in the house of Circe."
"Circe_" Annabeth remembered her trip to the island of the sorceress. She'd
been thirteen. Percy and she had washed ashore from the Sea of Monsters. Hylla
had welcomed them. She had helped Annabeth get cleaned up and given her a
beautiful new dress and a complete makeover. Then Circe had made her sales
pitch: if Annabeth stayed on the island, she could have magical training and
incredible power. Annabeth had been tempted, maybe just a little, until she
realized the place was a trap, and Percy had been turned into a rodent. (That last
part seemed funny afterward; but at the time, it had been terrifying.) As for
Reyna_she'd been one of the servants who had combed Annabeth's hair.
"You_" Annabeth said in amazement. "And Hylla is queen of the Amazons?
How did you two-?"
"Long story," Reyna said. "But I remember you well. You were brave. I'd
never seen anyone refuse Circe's hospitality, much less outwit her. It's no
wonder Percy cares for you."
Her voice was wistful. Annabeth thought it might be safer not to respond.
They reached the top of the hill, where a terrace overlooked the entire valley.
"This is my favorite spot," Reyna said. "The Garden of Bacchus."
Grapevine trellises made a canopy overhead. Bees buzzed through
honeysuckle and jasmine, which filled the afternoon air with a dizzying mix of
perfumes. In the middle of the terrace stood a statue of Bacchus in a sort of
ballet position, wearing nothing but a loincloth, his cheeks puffed out and lips
pursed, spouting water into a fountain.
Despite her worries, Annabeth almost laughed. She knew the god in his

Greek form, Dionysus-or Mr. D, as they called him back at Camp Half-Blood.
Seeing their cranky old camp director immortalized in stone, wearing a diaper
and spewing water from his mouth, made her feel a little better.
Reyna stopped at the edge of the terrace. The view was worth the climb. The
whole city spread out below them like a 3-D mosaic. To the south, beyond the
lake, a cluster of temples perched on a hill. To the north, an aqueduct marched
toward the Berkeley Hills. Work crews were repairing a broken section,
probably damaged in the recent battle.
"I wanted to hear it from you," Reyna said.
Annabeth turned. "Hear what from me?"
"The truth," Reyna said. "Convince me that I'm not making a mistake by
trusting you. Tell me about yourself. Tell me about Camp Half-Blood. Your
friend Piper has sorcery in her words. I spent enough time with Circe to know
charmspeak when I hear it. I can't trust what she says. And Jason_well, he has
changed. He seems distant, no longer quite Roman."
The hurt in her voice was as sharp as broken glass. Annabeth wondered if she
had sounded that way, all the months she'd spent searching for Percy. At least
she'd found her boyfriend. Reyna had no one. She was responsible for running
an entire camp all by herself. Annabeth could sense that Reyna wanted Jason to
love her. But he had disappeared, only to come back with a new girlfriend.
Meanwhile, Percy had risen to praetor, but he had rebuffed Reyna too. Now
Annabeth had come to take him away. Reyna would be left alone again,
shouldering a job meant for two people.
When Annabeth had arrived at Camp Jupiter, she'd been prepared to
negotiate with Reyna or even fight her if needed. She hadn't been prepared to
feel sorry for her.
She kept that feeling hidden. Reyna didn't strike her as someone who would
appreciate pity.
Instead, she told Reyna about her own life. She talked about her dad and
stepmom and her two stepbrothers in San Francisco, and how she had felt like an
outsider in her own family. She talked about how she had run away when she
was only seven, finding her friends Luke and Thalia and making her way to

Camp Half-Blood on Long Island. She described the camp and her years
growing up there. She talked about meeting Percy and the adventures they'd had
together.
Reyna was a good listener.
Annabeth was tempted to tell her about more recent problems: her fight with
her mom, the gift of the silver coin, and the nightmares she'd been having-
about an old fear so paralyzing, she'd almost decided that she couldn't go on this
quest. But she couldn't bring herself to open up quite that much.
When Annabeth was done talking, Reyna gazed over New Rome. Her metal
greyhounds sniffed around the garden, snapping at bees in the honeysuckle.
Finally Reyna pointed to the cluster of temples on the distant hill.
"The small red building," she said, "there on the northern side? That's the
temple of my mother, Bellona." Reyna turned toward Annabeth. "Unlike your
mother, Bellona has no Greek equivalent. She is fully, truly Roman. She's the
goddess of protecting the homeland."
Annabeth said nothing. She knew very little about the Roman goddess. She
wished she had studied up, but Latin never came as easily to her as Greek. Down
below, the hull of the Argo II gleamed as it floated over the forum, like some
massive bronze party balloon.
"When the Romans go to war," Reyna continued, "we first visit the Temple
of Bellona. Inside is a symbolic patch of ground that represents enemy soil. We
throw a spear into that ground, indicating that we are now at war. You see,
Romans have always believed that offense is the best defense. In ancient times,
whenever our ancestors felt threatened by their neighbors, they would invade to
protect themselves."
"They conquered everyone around them," Annabeth said. "Carthage, the
Gauls-"
"And the Greeks." Reyna let that comment hang. "My point, Annabeth, is
that it isn't Rome's nature to cooperate with other powers. Every time Greek and
Roman demigods have met, we've fought. Conflicts between our two sides have
started some of the most horrible wars in human history-especially civil wars."
"It doesn't have to be that way," Annabeth said. "We've got to work together,

or Gaea will destroy us both."
"I agree," Reyna said. "But is cooperation possible? What if Juno's plan is
flawed? Even goddesses can make mistakes."
Annabeth waited for Reyna to get struck by lightning or turned into a
peacock. Nothing happened.
Unfortunately, Annabeth shared Reyna's doubts. Hera did make mistakes.
Annabeth had had nothing but trouble from that overbearing goddess, and she'd
never forgive Hera for taking Percy away, even if it was for a noble cause.
"I don't trust the goddess," Annabeth admitted. "But I do trust my friends.
This isn't a trick, Reyna. We can work together."
Reyna finished her cup of chocolate. She set the cup on the terrace railing and
gazed over the valley as if imagining battle lines.
"I believe you mean it," she said. "But if you go to the ancient lands,
especially Rome itself, there is something you should know about your mother."
Annabeth's shoulders tensed. "My-my mother?"
"When I lived on Circe's island," Reyna said, "we had many visitors. Once,
perhaps a year before you and Percy arrived, a young man washed ashore. He
was half mad from thirst and heat. He'd been drifting at sea for days. His words
didn't make much sense, but he said he was a son of Athena."
Reyna paused as if waiting for a reaction. Annabeth had no idea who the boy
might have been. She wasn't aware of any other Athena kids who'd gone on a
quest in the Sea of Monsters, but still she felt a sense of dread. The light filtering
through the grapevines made shadows writhe across the ground like a swarm of
bugs.
"What happened to this demigod?" she asked.
Reyna waved her hand as if the question was trivial. "Circe turned him into a
guinea pig, of course. He made quite a crazy little rodent. But before that, he
kept raving about his failed quest. He claimed that he'd gone to Rome, following
the Mark of Athena."
Annabeth grabbed the railing to keep her balance.
"Yes," Reyna said, seeing her discomfort. "He kept muttering about
wisdom's child, the Mark of Athena, and the giants' bane standing pale and

gold. The same lines Ella was just reciting. But you say that you've never heard
them before today?"
"Not-not the way Ella said them." Annabeth's voice was weak. She wasn't
lying. She'd never heard that prophecy, but her mother had charged her with
following the Mark of Athena; and as she thought about the coin in her pocket, a
horrible suspicion began taking root in her mind. She remembered her mother's
scathing words. She thought about the strange nightmares she'd been having
lately. "Did this demigod-did he explain his quest?"
Reyna shook her head. "At the time, I had no idea what he was talking about.
Much later, when I became praetor of Camp Jupiter, I began to suspect."
"Suspect_what?"
"There is an old legend that the praetors of Camp Jupiter have passed down
through the centuries. If it's true, it may explain why our two groups of
demigods have never been able to work together. It may be the cause of our
animosity. Until this old score is finally settled, so the legend goes, Romans and
Greeks will never be at peace. And the legend centers on Athena-"
A shrill sound pierced the air. Light flashed in the corner of Annabeth's eye.
She turned in time to see an explosion blast a new crater in the forum. A
burning couch tumbled through the air. Demigods scattered in panic.
"Giants?" Annabeth reached for her dagger, which of course wasn't there. "I
thought their army was defeated!"
"It isn't the giants." Reyna's eyes seethed with rage. "You've betrayed our
trust."
"What? No!"
As soon as she said it, the Argo II launched a second volley. Its port ballista
fired a massive spear wreathed in Greek fire, which sailed straight through the
broken dome of the Senate House and exploded inside, lighting up the building
like a jack-o'-lantern. If anyone had been in there_
"Gods, no." A wave of nausea almost made Annabeth's knees buckle.
"Reyna, it isn't possible. We'd never do this!"
The metal dogs ran to their mistress's side. They snarled at Annabeth but
paced uncertainly, as if reluctant to attack.

"You're telling the truth," Reyna judged. "Perhaps you were not aware of this
treachery, but someone must pay."
Down in the forum, chaos was spreading. Crowds were pushing and shoving.
Fistfights were breaking out.
"Bloodshed," Reyna said.
"We have to stop it!"
Annabeth had a horrible feeling this might be the last time Reyna and she
ever acted in agreement, but together they ran down the hill.
If weapons had been allowed in the city, Annabeth's friends would have already
been dead. The Roman demigods in the forum had coalesced into an angry mob.
Some threw plates, food, and rocks at the Argo II, which was pointless, as most
of the stuff fell back into the crowd.
Several dozen Romans had surrounded Piper and Jason, who were trying to
calm them without much luck. Piper's charmspeak was useless against so many
screaming, angry demigods. Jason's forehead was bleeding. His purple cloak
had been ripped to shreds. He kept pleading, "I'm on your side!" but his orange
Camp Half-Blood T-shirt didn't help matters-nor did the warship overhead,
firing flaming spears into New Rome. One landed nearby and blasted a toga
shop to rubble.
"Pluto's pauldrons," Reyna cursed. "Look."
Armed legionnaires were hurrying toward the forum. Two artillery crews had
set up catapults just outside the Pomerian Line and were preparing to fire at the
Argo II.
"That'll just make things worse," Annabeth said.
"I hate my job," Reyna growled. She rushed off toward the legionnaires, her
dogs at her side.
Percy, Annabeth thought, scanning the forum desperately. Where are you?
Two Romans tried to grab her. She ducked past them, plunging into the
crowd. As if the angry Romans, burning couches, and exploding buildings
weren't confusing enough, hundreds of purple ghosts drifted through the forum,
passing straight through the demigods' bodies and wailing incoherently. The

fauns had also taken advantage of the chaos. They swarmed the dining tables,
grabbing food, plates, and cups. One trotted by Annabeth with his arms full of
tacos and an entire pineapple between his teeth.
A statue of Terminus exploded into being, right in front of Annabeth. He
yelled at her in Latin, no doubt calling her a liar and a rule breaker; but she
pushed the statue over and kept running.
Finally she spotted Percy. He and his friends, Hazel and Frank, were standing
in the middle of a fountain as Percy repelled the angry Romans with blasts of
water. Percy's toga was in tatters, but he looked unhurt.
Annabeth called to him as another explosion rocked the forum. This time the
flash of light was directly overhead. One of the Roman catapults had fired, and
the Argo II groaned and tilted sideways, flames bubbling over its bronze-plated
hull.
Annabeth noticed a figure clinging desperately to the rope ladder, trying to
climb down. It was Octavian, his robes steaming and his face black with soot.
Over by the fountain, Percy blasted the Roman mob with more water.
Annabeth ran toward him, ducking a Roman fist and a flying plate of
sandwiches.
"Annabeth!" Percy called. "What-?"
"I don't know!" she yelled.
"I'll tell you what!" cried a voice from above. Octavian had reached the
bottom of the ladder. "The Greeks have fired on us! Your boy Leo has trained
his weapons on Rome!"
Annabeth's chest filled with liquid hydrogen. She felt like she might shatter
into a million frozen pieces.
"You're lying," she said. "Leo would never-"
"I was just there!" Octavian shrieked. "I saw it with my own eyes!"
The Argo II returned fire. Legionnaires in the field scattered as one of their
catapults was blasted to splinters.
"You see?" Octavian screamed. "Romans, kill the invaders!"
Annabeth growled in frustration. There was no time for anyone to figure out
the truth. The crew from Camp Half-Blood was outnumbered a hundred to one,

and even if Octavian had managed to stage some sort of trick (which she thought
likely), they'd never be able to convince the Romans before they were overrun
and killed.
"We have to leave," she told Percy. "Now."
He nodded grimly. "Hazel, Frank, you've got to make a choice. Are you
coming?"
Hazel looked terrified, but she donned her cavalry helmet. "Of course we are.
But you'll never make it to the ship unless we buy you some time."
"How?" Annabeth asked.
Hazel whistled. Instantly a blur of beige shot across the forum. A majestic
horse materialized next to the fountain. He reared, whinnying and scattering the
mob. Hazel climbed on his back like she'd been born to ride. Strapped to the
horse's saddle was a Roman cavalry sword.
Hazel unsheathed her golden blade. "Send me an Iris-message when you're
safely away, and we'll rendezvous," she said. "Arion, ride!"
The horse zipped through the crowd with incredible speed, pushing back
Romans and causing mass panic.
Annabeth felt a glimmer of hope. Maybe they could make it out of here alive.
Then, from halfway across the forum, she heard Jason shouting.
"Romans!" he cried. "Please!"
He and Piper were being pelted with plates and stones. Jason tried to shield
Piper, but a brick caught him above the eye. He crumpled, and the crowd surged
forward.
"Get back!" Piper screamed. Her charmspeak rolled over the mob, making
them hesitate, but Annabeth knew the effect wouldn't last. Percy and she
couldn't possibly reach them in time to help.
"Frank," Percy said, "it's up to you. Can you help them?"
Annabeth didn't understand how Frank could do that all by himself, but he
swallowed nervously.
"Oh, gods," he murmured. "Okay, sure. Just get up the ropes. Now."
Percy and Annabeth lunged for the ladder. Octavian was still clinging to the
bottom, but Percy yanked him off and threw him into the mob.

They began to climb as armed legionnaires flooded into the forum. Arrows
whistled past Annabeth's head. An explosion almost knocked her off the ladder.
Halfway up, she heard a roar below and glanced down.
Romans screamed and scattered as a full-sized dragon charged through the
forum-a beast even scarier than the bronze dragon figurehead on the Argo II. It
had rough gray skin like a Komodo lizard's and leathery bat wings. Arrows and
rocks bounced harmlessly off its hide as it lumbered toward Piper and Jason,
grabbed them with its front claws, and vaulted into the air.
"Is that_ ?" Annabeth couldn't even put the thought into words.
"Frank," Percy confirmed, a few feet above her. "He has a few special
talents."
"Understatement," Annabeth muttered. "Keep climbing!"
Without the dragon and Hazel's horse to distract the archers, they never
would have made it up the ladder; but finally they climbed past a row of broken
aerial oars and onto the deck. The rigging was on fire. The foresail was ripped
down the middle, and the ship listed badly to starboard.
There was no sign of Coach Hedge, but Leo stood amidships, calmly
reloading the ballista. Annabeth's gut twisted with horror.
"Leo!" she screamed. "What are you doing?"
"Destroy them_" He faced Annabeth. His eyes were glazed. His movements
were like a robot's. "Destroy them all."
He turned back to the ballista, but Percy tackled him. Leo's head hit the deck
hard, and his eyes rolled up so that only the whites showed.
The gray dragon soared into view. It circled the ship once and landed at the
bow, depositing Jason and Piper, who both collapsed.
"Go!" Percy yelled. "Get us out of here!"
With a shock, Annabeth realized he was talking to her.
She ran for the helm. She made the mistake of glancing over the rail and saw
armed legionnaires closing ranks in the forum, preparing flaming arrows. Hazel
spurred Arion, and they raced out of the city with a mob chasing after them.
More catapults were being wheeled into range. All along the Pomerian Line, the
statues of Terminus were glowing purple, as if building up energy for some kind

of attack.
Annabeth looked over the controls. She cursed Leo for making them so
complicated. No time for fancy maneuvers, but she did know one basic
command: Up.
She grabbed the aviation throttle and yanked it straight back. The ship
groaned. The bow tilted up at a horrifying angle. The mooring lines snapped, and
the Argo II shot into the clouds.

LEO WISHED HE COULD INVENT a time machine. He'd go back two hours and undo
what had happened. Either that, or he could invent a Slap-Leo-in-the-Face
machine to punish himself, though he doubted it would hurt as badly as the look
Annabeth was giving him.
"One more time," she said. "Exactly what happened?"
Leo slumped against the mast. His head still throbbed from hitting the deck.
All around him, his beautiful new ship was in shambles. The aft crossbows were
piles of kindling. The foresail was tattered. The satellite array that powered the
onboard Internet and TV was blown to bits, which had really made Coach Hedge
mad. Their bronze dragon figurehead, Festus, was coughing up smoke like he
had a hairball, and Leo could tell from the groaning sounds on the port side that
some of the aerial oars had been knocked out of alignment or broken off
completely, which explained why the ship was listing and shuddering as it flew,
the engine wheezing like an asthmatic steam train.
He choked back a sob. "I don't know. It's fuzzy."
Too many people were looking at him: Annabeth (Leo hated to make her
angry; that girl scared him), Coach Hedge with his furry goat legs, his orange
polo shirt, and his baseball bat (did he have to carry that everywhere?), and the

newcomer, Frank.
Leo wasn't sure what to make of Frank. He looked like a baby sumo wrestler,
though Leo wasn't stupid enough to say that aloud. Leo's memory was hazy, but
while he'd been half conscious, he was pretty sure he'd seen a dragon land on
the ship-a dragon that had turned into Frank.
Annabeth crossed her arms. "You mean you don't remember?"
"I_" Leo felt like he was trying to swallow a marble. "I remember, but it's
like I was watching myself do things. I couldn't control it."
Coach Hedge tapped his bat against the deck. In his gym clothes, with his cap
pulled over his horns, he looked just like he used to at the Wilderness School,
where he'd spent a year undercover as Jason, Piper, and Leo's P.E. teacher. The
way the old satyr was glowering, Leo almost wondered if the coach was going to
order him to do push-ups.
"Look, kid," Hedge said, "you blew up some stuff. You attacked some
Romans. Awesome! Excellent! But did you have to knock out the satellite
channels? I was right in the middle of watching a cage match."
"Coach," Annabeth said, "why don't you make sure all the fires are out?"
"But I already did that."
"Do it again."
The satyr trudged off, muttering under his breath. Even Hedge wasn't crazy
enough to defy Annabeth.
She knelt next to Leo. Her gray eyes were as steely as ball bearings. Her
blond hair fell loose around her shoulders, but Leo didn't find that attractive. He
had no idea where the stereotype of dumb giggly blondes came from. Ever since
he'd met Annabeth at the Grand Canyon last winter, when she'd marched toward
him with that Give me Percy Jackson or I'll kill you expression, Leo thought of
blondes as much too smart and much too dangerous.
"Leo," she said calmly, "did Octavian trick you somehow? Did he frame you,
or-"
"No." Leo could have lied and blamed that stupid Roman, but he didn't want
to make a bad situation worse. "The guy was a jerk, but he didn't fire on the
camp. I did."

The new kid, Frank, scowled. "On purpose?"
"No!" Leo squeezed his eyes shut. "Well, yes_I mean, I didn't want to. But
at the same time, I felt like I wanted to. Something was making me do it. There
was this cold feeling inside me-"
"A cold feeling." Annabeth's tone changed. She sounded almost_scared.
"Yeah," Leo said. "Why?"
From belowdecks, Percy called up, "Annabeth, we need you."
Oh, gods, Leo thought. Please let Jason be okay.
As soon as they'd gotten on board, Piper had taken Jason below. The cut on
his head had looked pretty bad. Leo had known Jason longer than anyone at
Camp Half-Blood. They were best friends. If Jason didn't make it_
"He'll be fine." Annabeth's expression softened. "Frank, I'll be back. Just_
watch Leo. Please."
Frank nodded.
If it was possible for Leo to feel worse, he did. Annabeth now trusted a
Roman demigod she'd known for like, three seconds, more than she trusted Leo.
Once she was gone, Leo and Frank stared at each other. The big dude looked
pretty odd in his bedsheet toga, with his gray pullover hoodie and jeans, and a
bow and quiver from the ship's armory slung over his shoulder. Leo
remembered the time he had met the Hunters of Artemis-a bunch of cute lithe
girls in silvery clothes, all armed with bows. He imagined Frank frolicking along
with them. The idea was so ridiculous, it almost made him feel better.
"So," Frank said. "Your name isn't Sammy?"
Leo scowled. "What kind of question is that?"
"Nothing," Frank said quickly. "I just- Nothing. About the firing on the
camp_Octavian could be behind it, like magically or something. He didn't want
the Romans getting along with you guys."
Leo wanted to believe that. He was grateful to this kid for not hating him. But
he knew it hadn't been Octavian. Leo had walked to a ballista and started firing.
Part of him had known it was wrong. He'd asked himself: What the heck am I
doing? But he'd done it anyway.
Maybe he was going crazy. The stress of all those months working on the

Argo II might've finally made him crack.
But he couldn't think about that. He needed to do something productive. His
hands needed to be busy.
"Look," he said, "I should talk to Festus and get a damage report. You
mind_ ?"
Frank helped him up. "Who is Festus?"
"My friend," Leo said. "His name isn't Sammy either, in case you're
wondering. Come on. I'll introduce you."
Fortunately the bronze dragon wasn't damaged. Well, aside from the fact that
last winter he'd lost everything except his head-but Leo didn't count that.
When they reached the bow of the ship, the figurehead turned a hundred and
eighty degrees to look at them. Frank yelped and backed away.
"It's alive!" he said.
Leo would have laughed if he hadn't felt so bad. "Yeah. Frank, this is Festus.
He used to be a full bronze dragon, but we had an accident."
"You have a lot of accidents," Frank noted.
"Well, some of us can't turn into dragons, so we have to build our own." Leo
arched his eyebrows at Frank. "Anyway, I revived him as a figurehead. He's
kind of the ship's main interface now. How are things looking, Festus?"
Festus snorted smoke and made a series of squeaking, whirring sounds. Over
the last few months, Leo had learned to interpret this machine language. Other
demigods could understand Latin and Greek. Leo could speak Creak and
Squeak.
"Ugh," Leo said. "Could be worse, but the hull is compromised in several
places. The port aerial oars have to be fixed before we can go full speed again.
We'll need some repair materials: Celestial bronze, tar, lime-"
"What do you need limes for?"
"Dude, lime. Calcium carbonate, used in cement and a bunch of other- Ah,
never mind. The point is, this ship isn't going far unless we can fix it."
Festus made another click-creak noise that Leo didn't recognize. It sounded
like AY-zuhl.

"Oh_Hazel," he deciphered. "That's the girl with the curly hair, right?"
Frank gulped. "Is she okay?"
"Yeah, she's fine," Leo said. "According to Festus, her horse is racing along
below. She's following us."
"We've got to land, then," Frank said.
Leo studied him. "She's your girlfriend?"
Frank chewed his lip. "Yes."
"You don't sound sure."
"Yes. Yes, definitely. I'm sure."
Leo raised his hands. "Okay, fine. The problem is we can only manage one
landing. The way the hull and the oars are, we won't be able to lift off again
until we repair, so we'll have to make sure we land somewhere with all the right
supplies."
Frank scratched his head. "Where do you get Celestial bronze? You can't just
stock up at Home Depot."
"Festus, do a scan."
"He can scan for magic bronze?" Frank marveled. "Is there anything he can't
do?"
Leo thought: You should've seen him when he had a body. But he didn't say
that. It was too painful, remembering the way Festus used to be.
Leo peered over the ship's bow. The Central California valley was passing
below. Leo didn't hold out much hope that they could find what they needed all
in one place, but they had to try. Leo also wanted to put as much distance as
possible between himself and New Rome. The Argo II could cover vast
distances pretty quickly, thanks to its magical engine, but Leo figured the
Romans had magic travel methods of their own.
Behind him, the stairs creaked. Percy and Annabeth climbed up, their faces
grim.
Leo's heart stumbled. "Is Jason-?"
"He's resting," Annabeth said. "Piper's keeping an eye on him, but he should
be fine."
Percy gave him a hard look. "Annabeth says you did fire the ballista?"

"Man, I-I don't understand how it happened. I'm so sorry-"
"Sorry?" Percy growled.
Annabeth put a hand on her boyfriend's chest. "We'll figure it out later. Right
now, we have to regroup and make a plan. What's the situation with the ship?"
Leo's legs trembled. The way Percy had looked at him made him feel the
same as when Jason summoned lightning. Leo's skin tingled, and every instinct
in his body screamed, Duck!
He told Annabeth about the damage and the supplies they needed. At least he
felt better talking about something fixable.
He was bemoaning the shortage of Celestial bronze when Festus began to
whir and squeak.
"Perfect." Leo sighed with relief.
"What's perfect?" Annabeth said. "I could use some perfect about now."
Leo managed a smile. "Everything we need in one place. Frank, why don't
you turn into a bird or something? Fly down and tell your girlfriend to meet us at
the Great Salt Lake in Utah."
Once they got there, it wasn't a pretty landing. With the oars damaged and the
foresail torn, Leo could barely manage a controlled descent. The others strapped
themselves in below-except for Coach Hedge, who insisted on clinging to the
forward rail, yelling, "YEAH! Bring it on, lake!" Leo stood astern, alone at the
helm, and aimed as best he could.
Festus creaked and whirred warning signals, which were relayed through the
intercom to the quarterdeck.
"I know, I know," Leo said, gritting his teeth.
He didn't have much time to take in the scenery. To the southeast, a city was
nestled in the foothills of a mountain range, blue and purple in the afternoon
shadows. A flat desert landscape spread to the south. Directly beneath them the
Great Salt Lake glittered like aluminum foil, the shoreline etched with white salt
marshes that reminded Leo of aerial photos of Mars.
"Hang on, Coach!" he shouted. "This is going to hurt."
"I was born for hurt!"

WHOOM! A swell of salt water washed over the bow, dousing Coach Hedge.
The Argo II listed dangerously to starboard, then righted itself and rocked on the
surface of the lake. Machinery hummed as the aerial blades that were still
working changed to nautical form.
Three banks of robotic oars dipped into the water and began moving them
forward.
"Good job, Festus," Leo said. "Take us toward the south shore."
"Yeah!" Coach Hedge pumped his fists in the air. He was drenched from his
horns to hooves, but grinning like a crazy goat. "Do it again!"
"Uh_maybe later," Leo said. "Just stay above deck, okay? You can keep
watch, in case-you know, the lake decides to attack us or something."
"On it," Hedge promised.
Leo rang the All clear bell and headed for the stairs. Before he got there, a
loud clump-clump-clump shook the hull. A tan stallion appeared on deck with
Hazel Levesque on his back.
"How-?" Leo's question died in his throat. "We're in the middle of a lake!
Can that thing fly?"
The horse whinnied angrily.
"Arion can't fly," Hazel said. "But he can run across just about anything.
Water, vertical surfaces, small mountains-none of that bothers him."
"Oh."
Hazel was looking at him strangely, the way she had during the feast in the
forum-like she was searching for something in his face. He was tempted to ask
if they had met before, but he was sure they hadn't. He would remember a pretty
girl paying such close attention to him. That didn't happen a lot.
She's Frank's girlfriend, he reminded himself.
Frank was still below, but Leo almost wished the big guy would come up the
stairs. The way Hazel was studying Leo made him feel uneasy and selfconscious.
Coach Hedge crept forward with his baseball bat, eyeing the magic horse
suspiciously. "Valdez, does this count as an invasion?"
"No!" Leo said. "Um, Hazel, you'd better come with me. I built a stable

belowdecks, if Arion wants to-"
"He's more of a free spirit." Hazel slipped out of the saddle. "He'll graze
around the lake until I call him. But I want to see the ship. Lead the way."
The Argo II was designed like an ancient trireme, only twice as big. The first
deck had one central corridor with crew cabins on either side. On a normal
trireme, most of the space would've been taken up with three rows of benches
for a few hundred sweaty guys to do the manual labor, but Leo's oars were
automated and retractable, so they took up very little room inside the hull. The
ship's power came from the engine room on the second and lowest deck, which
also housed sickbay, storage, and the stables.
Leo led the way down the hall. He'd built the ship with eight cabins-seven
for the demigods of the prophecy, and a room for Coach Hedge (Seriously-
Chiron considered him a responsible adult chaperone?). At the stern was a large
mess hall/lounge, which was where Leo headed.
On the way, they passed Jason's room. The door was open. Piper sat at the
side of his berth, holding Jason's hand while he snored with an ice pack on his
head.
Piper glanced at Leo. She held a finger to her lips for quiet, but she didn't
look angry. That was something. Leo tried to force down his guilt, and they kept
walking. When they reached the mess hall, they found the others-Percy,
Annabeth, and Frank-sitting dejectedly around the dining table.
Leo had made the lounge as nice as possible, since he figured they'd be
spending a lot of time there. The cupboard was lined with magic cups and plates
from Camp Half-Blood, which would fill up with whatever food or drink you
wanted on command. There was also a magical ice chest with canned drinks,
perfect for picnics ashore. The chairs were cushy recliners with thousand-finger
massage, built-in headphones, and sword and drink holders for all your demigod
kicking-back needs. There were no windows, but the walls were enchanted to
show real-time footage from Camp Half-Blood-the beach, the forest, the
strawberry fields-although now Leo was wondering if this made people
homesick rather than happy.
Percy was staring longingly at a sunset view of Half-Blood Hill, where the

Golden Fleece glittered in the branches of the tall pine tree.
"So we've landed," Percy said. "What now?"
Frank plucked on his bowstring. "Figure out the prophecy? I mean_that was
a prophecy Ella spoke, right? From the Sibylline Books?"
"The what?" Leo asked.
Frank explained how their harpy friend was freakishly good at memorizing
books. At some point in the past, she'd inhaled a collection of ancient prophecies
that had supposedly been destroyed around the fall of Rome.
"That's why you didn't tell the Romans," Leo guessed. "You didn't want
them to get hold of her."
Percy kept staring at the image of Half-Blood Hill. "Ella's sensitive. She was
a captive when we found her. I just didn't want_" He made a fist. "It doesn't
matter now. I sent Tyson an Iris-message, told him to take Ella to Camp HalfBlood. They'll be safe there."
Leo doubted that any of them would be safe, now that he had stirred up a
camp of angry Romans on top of the problems they already had with Gaea and
the giants; but he kept quiet.
Annabeth laced her fingers. "Let me think about the prophecy-but right now
we have more immediate problems. We have to get this ship fixed. Leo, what do
we need?"
"The easiest thing is tar." Leo was glad to change the subject. "We can get
that in the city, at a roofing-supply store or someplace like that. Also, Celestial
bronze and lime. According to Festus, we can find both of those on an island in
the lake, just west of here."
"We'll have to hurry," Hazel warned. "If I know Octavian, he's searching for
us with his auguries. The Romans will send a strike force after us. It's a matter
of honor."
Leo felt everyone's eyes on him. "Guys_I don't know what happened.
Honestly, I-"
Annabeth raised her hand. "We've been talking. We agree it couldn't have
been you, Leo. That cold feeling you mentioned_I felt it too. It must have been
some sort of magic, either Octavian or Gaea or one of her minions. But until we

understand what happened-"
Frank grunted. "How can we be sure it won't happen again?"
Leo's fingers heated up like they were about to catch fire. One of his powers
as a son of Hephaestus was that he could summon flames at will; but he had to
be careful not to do so by accident, especially on a ship filled with explosives
and flammable supplies.
"I'm fine now," he insisted, though he wished he could be sure. "Maybe we
should use the buddy system. Nobody goes anywhere alone. We can leave Piper
and Coach Hedge on board with Jason. Send one team into town to get tar.
Another team can go after the bronze and the lime."
"Split up?" Percy said. "That sounds like a really bad idea."
"It'll be quicker," Hazel put in. "Besides, there's a reason a quest is usually
limited to three demigods, right?"
Annabeth raised her eyebrows, as if reappraising Hazel's merits. "You're
right. The same reason we needed the Argo II_outside camp, seven demigods in
one place will attract way too much monstrous attention. The ship is designed to
conceal and protect us. We should be safe enough on board; but if we go on
expeditions, we shouldn't travel in groups larger than three. No sense alerting
more of Gaea's minions than we have to."
Percy still didn't look happy about it, but he took Annabeth's hand. "As long
as you're my buddy, I'm good."
Hazel smiled. "Oh, that's easy. Frank, you were amazing, turning into a
dragon! Could you do it again to fly Annabeth and Percy into town for the tar?"
Frank opened his mouth like he wanted to protest. "I_I suppose. But what
about you?"
"I'll ride Arion with Sa-with Leo, here." She fidgeted with her sword hilt,
which made Leo uneasy. She had even more nervous energy than he did. "We'll
get the bronze and the lime. We can all meet back here by dark."
Frank scowled. Obviously, he didn't like the idea of Leo going off with
Hazel. For some reason, Frank's disapproval made Leo want to go. He had to
prove he was trustworthy. He wasn't going to fire any random ballistae again.
"Leo," said Annabeth, "if we get the supplies, how long to fix the ship?"

"With luck, just a few hours."
"Fine," she decided. "We'll meet you back here as soon as possible, but stay
safe. We could use some good luck. That doesn't mean we'll get it."

RIDING ARION WAS THE BEST THING that had happened to Leo all day-which
wasn't saying much, since his day had sucked. The horse's hooves turned the
surface of the lake to salty mist. Leo put his hand against the horse's side and
felt the muscles working like a well-oiled machine. For the first time, he
understood why car engines were measured in horsepower. Arion was a fourlegged Maserati.
Ahead of them lay an island-a line of sand so white, it might have been pure
table salt. Behind that rose an expanse of grassy dunes and weathered boulders.
Leo sat behind Hazel, one arm around her waist. The close contact made him
a little uncomfortable, but it was the only way he could stay on board (or
whatever you called it with a horse).
Before they left, Percy had pulled him aside to tell him Hazel's story. Percy
made it sound like he was just doing Leo a favor, but there'd been an undertone
like If you mess with my friend, I will personally feed you to a great white shark.
According to Percy, Hazel was a daughter of Pluto. She'd died in the 1940s
and been brought back to life only a few months ago.
Leo found that hard to believe. Hazel seemed warm and very alive, not like
the ghosts or the other reborn mortals Leo had tangled with.

She seemed good with people, too, unlike Leo, who was much more
comfortable with machines. Living stuff, like horses and girls? He had no idea
what made them work.
Hazel was also Frank's girlfriend, so Leo knew he should keep his distance.
Still, her hair smelled good, and riding with her made his heart race almost
against his will. It must've been the speed of the horse.
Arion thundered onto the beach. He stomped his hooves and whinnied
triumphantly, like Coach Hedge yelling a battle cry.
Hazel and Leo dismounted. Arion pawed the sand.
"He needs to eat," Hazel explained. "He likes gold, but-"
"Gold?" Leo asked.
"He'll settle for grass. Go on, Arion. Thanks for the ride. I'll call you."
Just like that, the horse was gone-nothing left but a steaming trail across the
lake.
"Fast horse," Leo said, "and expensive to feed."
"Not really," Hazel said. "Gold is easy for me."
Leo raised his eyebrows. "How is gold easy? Please tell me you're not related
to King Midas. I don't like that guy."
Hazel pursed her lips, as if she regretted raising the subject. "Never mind."
That made Leo even more curious, but he decided it might be better not to
press her. He knelt and cupped a handful of white sand. "Well_one problem
solved, anyway. This is lime."
Hazel frowned. "The whole beach?"
"Yeah. See? The granules are perfectly round. It's not really sand. It's
calcium carbonate." Leo pulled a Ziploc bag from his tool belt and dug his hand
into the lime.
Suddenly he froze. He remembered all the times the earth goddess Gaea had
appeared to him in the ground-her sleeping face made of dust or sand or dirt.
She loved to taunt him. He imagined her closed eyes and her dreaming smile
swirling in the white calcium.
Walk away, little hero, Gaea said. Without you, the ship cannot be fixed.
"Leo?" Hazel asked. "You okay?"

He took a shaky breath. Gaea wasn't here. He was just freaking himself out.
"Yeah," he said. "Yeah, fine."
He started to fill the bag.
Hazel knelt next to him and helped. "We should've brought a pail and
shovels."
The idea cheered Leo up. He even smiled. "We could've made a sand castle."
"A lime castle."
Their eyes locked for a second too long.
Hazel looked away. "You are so much like-"
"Sammy?" Leo guessed.
She fell backward. "You know?"
"I have no idea who Sammy is. But Frank asked me if I was sure that wasn't
my name."
"And_it isn't?"
"No! Jeez."
"You don't have a twin brother or_" Hazel stopped. "Is your family from
New Orleans?"
"Nah. Houston. Why? Is Sammy a guy you used to know?"
"I_It's nothing. You just look like him."
Leo could tell she was too embarrassed to say more. But if Hazel was a kid
from the past, did that mean Sammy was from the 1940s? If so, how could Frank
know the guy? And why would Hazel think Leo was Sammy, all these decades
later?
They finished filling the bag in silence. Leo stuffed it in his tool belt and the
bag vanished-no weight, no mass, no volume-though Leo knew it would be
there as soon as he reached for it. Anything that could fit into the pockets, Leo
could tote around. He loved his tool belt. He just wished the pockets were large
enough for a chain saw, or maybe a bazooka.
He stood and scanned the island-bleach-white dunes, blankets of grass, and
boulders encrusted with salt like frosting. "Festus said there was Celestial bronze
close by, but I'm not sure where-"
"That way." Hazel pointed up the beach. "About five hundred yards."

"How do you-?"
"Precious metals," Hazel said. "It's a Pluto thing."
Leo remembered what she'd said about gold being easy. "Handy talent. Lead
the way, Miss Metal Detector."
The sun began to set. The sky turned a bizarre mix of purple and yellow. In
another reality, Leo might've enjoyed a walk on the beach with a pretty girl, but
the farther they went, the edgier he felt. Finally Hazel turned inland.
"You sure this is a good idea?" he asked.
"We're close," she promised. "Come on."
Just over the dunes, they saw the woman.
She sat on a boulder in the middle of a grassy field. A black-and-chrome
motorcycle was parked nearby, but each of the wheels had a big pie slice
removed from the spokes and rim, so that they resembled Pac-Men. No way was
the bike drivable in that condition.
The woman had curly black hair and a bony frame. She wore black leather
biker's pants, tall leather boots, and a bloodred leather jacket-sort of a Michael
Jackson joins the Hell's Angels look. Around her feet, the ground was littered
with what looked like broken shells. She was hunched over, pulling new ones
out of a sack and cracking them open. Shucking oysters? Leo wasn't sure if there
were oysters in the Great Salt Lake. He didn't think so.
He wasn't anxious to approach. He'd had bad experiences with strange ladies.
His old babysitter, Tia Callida, had turned out to be Hera and had a nasty habit
of putting him down for naps in a blazing fireplace. The earth goddess Gaea had
killed his mother in a workshop fire when Leo was eight. The snow goddess
Khione had tried to turn him into a frozen dairy treat in Sonoma.
But Hazel forged ahead, so he didn't have much choice except to follow.
As they got closer, Leo noticed disturbing details. Attached to the woman's
belt was a curled whip. Her red-leather jacket had a subtle design to it-twisted
branches of an apple tree populated with skeletal birds. The oysters she was
shucking were actually fortune cookies.
A pile of broken cookies lay ankle-deep all around her. She kept pulling new

ones from her sack, cracking them open, and reading the fortunes. Most she
tossed aside. A few made her mutter unhappily. She would swipe her finger over
the slip of paper like she was smudging it, then magically reseal the cookie and
toss it into a nearby basket.
"What are you doing?" Leo asked before he could stop himself.
The woman looked up. Leo's lungs filled so fast, he thought they might burst.
"Aunt Rosa?" he asked.
It didn't make sense, but this woman looked exactly like his aunt. She had the
same broad nose with a mole on one side, the same sour mouth and hard eyes.
But it couldn't be Rosa. She would never wear clothes like that, and she was still
down in Houston, as far as Leo knew. She wouldn't be cracking open fortune
cookies in the middle of the Great Salt Lake.
"Is that what you see?" the woman asked. "Interesting. And you, Hazel,
dear?"
"How did you-?" Hazel stepped back in alarm. "You-you look like Mrs.
Leer. My third grade teacher. I hated you."
The woman cackled. "Excellent. You resented her, eh? She judged you
unfairly?"
"You-she taped my hands to the desk for misbehaving," Hazel said. "She
called my mother a witch. She blamed me for everything I didn't do and- No.
She has to be dead. Who are you?"
"Oh, Leo knows," the woman said. "How do you feel about Aunt Rosa,
mijo?"
Mijo. That's what Leo's mom had always called him. After his mom died,
Rosa had rejected Leo. She'd called him a devil child. She'd blamed him for the
fire that had killed her sister. Rosa had turned his family against him and left him
-a scrawny orphaned eight-year-old-at the mercy of social services. Leo had
bounced around from foster home to foster home until he'd finally found a home
at Camp Half-Blood. Leo didn't hate many people, but after all these years, Aunt
Rosa's face made him boil with resentment.
How did he feel? He wanted to get even. He wanted revenge.
His eyes drifted to the motorcycle with the Pac-Man wheels. Where had he

seen something like that before? Cabin 16, back at Camp Half-Blood-the
symbol above their door was a broken wheel.
"Nemesis," he said. "You're the goddess of revenge."
"You see?" The goddess smiled at Hazel. "He recognizes me."
Nemesis cracked another cookie and wrinkled her nose. "You will have great
fortune when you least expect it," she read. "That's exactly the sort of nonsense I
hate. Someone opens a cookie, and suddenly they have a prophecy that they'll be
rich! I blame that tramp Tyche. Always dispensing good luck to people who
don't deserve it!"
Leo looked at the mound of broken cookies. "Uh_you know those aren't real
prophecies, right? They're just stuffed in the cookies at some factory-"
"Don't try to excuse it!" Nemesis snapped. "It's just like Tyche to get
people's hopes up. No, no. I must counter her." Nemesis flicked a finger over the
slip of paper, and the letters changed to red. "You will die painfully when you
most expect it. There! Much better."
"That's horrible!" Hazel said. "You'd let someone read that in their fortune
cookie, and it would come true?"
Nemesis sneered. It really was creepy, seeing that expression on Aunt Rosa's
face. "My dear Hazel, haven't you ever wished horrible things on Mrs. Leer for
the way she treated you?"
"That doesn't mean I'd want them to come true!"
"Bah." The goddess resealed the cookie and tossed it in her basket. "Tyche
would be Fortuna for you, I suppose, being Roman. Like the others, she's in a
horrible way right now. Me? I'm not affected. I am called Nemesis in both
Greek and Roman. I do not change, because revenge is universal."
"What are you talking about?" Leo asked. "What are you doing here?"
Nemesis opened another cookie. "Lucky numbers. Ridiculous! That's not
even a proper fortune!" She crushed the cookie and scattered the pieces around
her feet.
"To answer your question, Leo Valdez, the gods are in terrible shape. It
always happens when a civil war is brewing between you Romans and Greeks.
The Olympians are torn between their two natures, called on by both sides. They

become quite schizophrenic, I'm afraid. Splitting headaches. Disorientation."
"But we're not at war," Leo insisted.
"Um, Leo_" Hazel winced. "Except for the fact that you recently blew up
large sections of New Rome."
Leo stared at her, wondering whose side she was on. "Not on purpose!"
"I know_" Hazel said, "but the Romans don't realize that. And they'll be
pursuing us in retaliation."
Nemesis cackled. "Leo, listen to the girl. War is coming. Gaea has seen to it,
with your help. And can you guess whom the gods blame for their
predicament?"
Leo's mouth tasted like calcium carbonate. "Me."
The goddess snorted. "Well, don't you have a high opinion of yourself.
You're just a pawn on the chessboard, Leo Valdez. I was referring to the player
who set this ridiculous quest in motion, bringing the Greeks and Romans
together. The gods blame Hera-or Juno, if you prefer! The queen of the
heavens has fled Olympus to escape the wrath of her family. Don't expect any
more help from your patron!"
Leo's head throbbed. He had mixed feelings about Hera. She'd meddled in
his life since he was a baby, molding him to serve her purpose in this big
prophecy, but at least she had been on their side, more or less. If she was out of
the picture now_
"So why are you here?" he asked.
"Why, to offer my help!" Nemesis smiled wickedly.
Leo glanced at Hazel. She looked like she'd just been offered a free snake.
"Your help," Leo said.
"Of course!" said the goddess. "I enjoy tearing down the proud and powerful,
and there are none who deserve tearing down like Gaea and her giants. Still, I
must warn you that I will not suffer undeserved success. Good luck is a sham.
The wheel of fortune is a Ponzi scheme. True success requires sacrifice."
"Sacrifice?" Hazel's voice was tight. "I lost my mother. I died and came
back. Now my brother is missing. Isn't that enough sacrifice for you?"
Leo could totally relate. He wanted to scream that he'd lost his mom too. His

whole life had been one misery after another. He'd lost his dragon, Festus. He'd
nearly killed himself trying to finish the Argo II. Now he'd fired on the Roman
camp, most likely started a war, and maybe lost the trust of his friends.
"Right now," he said, trying to control his anger, "all I want is some Celestial
bronze."
"Oh, that's easy," Nemesis said. "It's just over the rise. You'll find it with the
sweethearts."
"Wait," Hazel said. "What sweethearts?"
Nemesis popped a cookie in her mouth and swallowed it, fortune and all.
"You'll see. Perhaps they will teach you a lesson, Hazel Levesque. Most heroes
cannot escape their nature, even when given a second chance at life." She
smiled. "And speaking of your brother Nico, you don't have much time. Let's
see_it's June twenty-fifth? Yes, after today, six more days. Then he dies, along
with the entire city of Rome."
Hazel's eyes widened. "How_what-?"
"And as for you, child of fire." She turned to Leo. "Your worst hardships are
yet to come. You will always be the outsider, the seventh wheel. You will not
find a place among your brethren. Soon you will face a problem you cannot
solve, though I could help you_for a price."
Leo smelled smoke. He realized fingers on his left hand were ablaze, and
Hazel was staring at him in terror.
He shoved his hand in his pocket to extinguish the flames. "I like to solve my
own problems."
"Very well." Nemesis brushed cookie dust off her jacket.
"But, um, what sort of price are we talking about?"
The goddess shrugged. "One of my children recently traded an eye for the
ability to make a real difference in the world."
Leo's stomach churned. "You_want an eye?"
"In your case, perhaps another sacrifice would do. But something just as
painful. Here." She handed him an unbroken fortune cookie. "If you need an
answer, break this. It will solve your problem."
Leo's hand trembled as he held the fortune cookie. "What problem?"

"You'll know when the time comes."
"No, thanks," Leo said firmly. But his hand, as though it had a will of its
own, slipped the cookie into his tool belt.
Nemesis picked another cookie from her bag and cracked it open. "You will
have cause to reconsider your choices soon. Oh, I like that one. No changes
needed here."
She resealed the cookie and tossed it into the basket. "Very few gods will be
able to help you on the quest. Most are already incapacitated, and their confusion
will only grow worse. One thing might bring unity to Olympus again-an old
wrong finally avenged. Ah, that would be sweet indeed, the scales finally
balanced! But it will not happen unless you accept my help."
"I suppose you won't tell us what you're talking about," Hazel muttered. "Or
why my brother Nico has only six days to live. Or why Rome is going to be
destroyed."
Nemesis chuckled. She rose and slung her sack of cookies over her shoulder.
"Oh, it's all tied together, Hazel Levesque. As for my offer, Leo Valdez, give it
some thought. You're a good child. A hard worker. We could do business. But I
have detained you too long. You should visit the reflecting pool before the light
fades. My poor cursed boy gets quite_agitated when the darkness comes."
Leo didn't like the sound of that, but the goddess climbed on her motorcycle.
Apparently, it was drivable, despite those Pac-Man-shaped wheels, because
Nemesis revved her engine and disappeared in a mushroom cloud of black
smoke.
Hazel bent down. All the broken cookies and fortunes had disappeared except
for one crumpled slip of paper. She picked it up and read, "You will see yourself
reflected, and you will have reason to despair."
"Fantastic," Leo grumbled. "Let's go see what that means."

"WHO IS AUNT ROSA?" HAZEL ASKED.
Leo didn't want to talk about her. Nemesis's words were still buzzing in his
ears. His tool belt seemed heavier since he'd put the cookie in there-which was
impossible. Its pockets could carry anything without adding extra weight. Even
the most fragile things would never break. Still, Leo imagined he could feel it in
there, dragging him down, waiting to be cracked open.
"Long story," he said. "She abandoned me after my mom died, gave me to
foster care."
"I'm sorry."
"Yeah, well_" Leo was anxious to change the subject. "What about you?
What Nemesis said about your brother?"
Hazel blinked like she'd gotten salt in her eyes. "Nico_he found me in the
Underworld. He brought me back to the mortal world and convinced the Romans
at Camp Jupiter to accept me. I owe him for my second chance at life. If
Nemesis is right, and Nico's in danger_I have to help him."
"Sure," Leo said, though the idea made him uneasy. He doubted the revenge
goddess ever gave advice out of the goodness of her heart. "And what Nemesis
said about your brother having six days to live, and Rome getting destroyed_

any idea what she meant?"
"None," Hazel admitted. "But I'm afraid_"
Whatever she was thinking, she decided not to share it. She climbed one of
the largest boulders to get a better view. Leo tried to follow and lost his balance.
Hazel caught his hand. She pulled him up and they found themselves atop the
rock, holding hands, face-to-face.
Hazel's eyes glittered like gold.
Gold is easy, she'd said. It didn't seem that way to Leo-not when he looked
at her. He wondered who Sammy was. Leo had a nagging suspicion that he
should know, but he just couldn't place the name. Whoever he was, he was
lucky if Hazel cared for him.
"Um, thanks." He let go of her hand, but they were still standing so close, he
could feel the warmth of her breath. She definitely didn't seem like a dead
person.
"When we were talking to Nemesis," Hazel said uneasily, "your hands_I
saw flames."
"Yeah," he said. "It's a Hephaestus power. Usually I can keep it under
control."
"Oh." She put one hand protectively on her denim shirt, like she was about to
say the Pledge of Allegiance. Leo got the feeling she wanted to back away from
him, but the boulder was too small.
Great, he thought. Another person who thinks I'm a scary freak.
He gazed across the island. The opposite shore was only a few hundred yards
away. Between here and there were dunes and clumps of boulders, but nothing
that looked like a reflecting pool.
You will always be the outsider, Nemesis had told him, the seventh wheel.
You will not find a place among your brethren.
She might as well have poured acid in his ears. Leo didn't need anybody to
tell him he was odd man out. He'd spent months alone in Bunker 9 at Camp
Half-Blood, working on his ship while his friends trained together and shared
meals and played capture-the-flag for fun and prizes. Even his two best friends,
Piper and Jason, often treated him like an outsider. Since they'd started dating,

their idea of "quality time" didn't include Leo. His only other friend, Festus the
dragon, had been reduced to a figurehead when his control disk had gotten
destroyed on their last adventure. Leo didn't have the technical skill to repair it.
The seventh wheel. Leo had heard of a fifth wheel-an extra, useless piece of
equipment. He figured a seventh wheel was worse.
He'd thought maybe this quest would be a fresh start for him. All his hard
work on the Argo II would pay off. He'd have six good friends who would
admire and appreciate him, and they'd go sailing off into the sunrise to fight
giants. Maybe, Leo secretly hoped, he'd even find a girlfriend.
Do the math, he chided himself.
Nemesis was right. He might be part of a group of seven, but he was still
isolated. He had fired on the Romans and brought his friends nothing but
trouble. You will not find a place among your brethren.
"Leo?" Hazel asked gently. "You can't take what Nemesis said to heart."
He frowned. "What if it's true?"
"She's the goddess of revenge," Hazel reminded him. "Maybe she's on our
side, maybe not; but she exists to stir up resentment."
Leo wished he could dismiss his feelings that easily. He couldn't. Still, it
wasn't Hazel's fault.
"We should keep going," he said. "I wonder what Nemesis meant about
finishing before dark."
Hazel glanced at the sun, which was just touching the horizon. "And who is
the cursed boy she mentioned?"
Below them, a voice said, "Cursed boy she mentioned."
At first, Leo saw no one. Then his eyes adjusted. He realized a young woman
was standing only ten feet from the base of the boulder. Her dress was a Greekstyle tunic the same color as the rocks. Her wispy hair was somewhere between
brown and blond and gray, so it blended with the dry grass. She wasn't invisible,
exactly, but she was almost perfectly camouflaged until she moved. Even then,
Leo had trouble focusing on her. Her face was pretty but not memorable. In fact,
each time Leo blinked, he couldn't remember what she looked like, and he had
to concentrate to find her again.

"Hello," Hazel said. "Who are you?"
"Who are you?" the girl answered. Her voice sounded weary, like she was
tired of answering that question.
Hazel and Leo exchanged looks. With this demigod gig, you never knew
what you'd run into. Nine times out of ten, it wasn't good. A ninja girl
camouflaged in earth tones didn't strike Leo as something he wanted to deal
with just then.
"Are you the cursed kid Nemesis mentioned?" Leo asked. "But you're a girl."
"You're a girl," said the girl.
"Excuse me?" Leo said.
"Excuse me," the girl said miserably.
"You're repeating_" Leo stopped. "Oh. Hold it. Hazel, wasn't there some
myth about a girl who repeated everything-?"
"Echo," Hazel said.
"Echo," the girl agreed. She shifted, her dress changing with the landscape.
Her eyes were the color of the salt water. Leo tried to home in on her features,
but he couldn't.
"I don't remember the myth," he admitted. "You were cursed to repeat the
last thing you heard?"
"You heard," Echo said.
"Poor thing," Hazel said. "If I remember right, a goddess did this?"
"A goddess did this," Echo confirmed.
Leo scratched his head. "But wasn't that thousands of years_oh. You're one
of the mortals who came back through the Doors of Death. I really wish we
could stop running into dead people."
"Dead people," Echo said, like she was chastising him.
He realized Hazel was staring at her feet.
"Uh_sorry," he muttered. "I didn't mean it that way."
"That way." Echo pointed toward the far shore of the island.
"You want to show us something?" Hazel asked. She climbed down the
boulder, and Leo followed.
Even up close, Echo was hard to see. In fact, she seemed to get more invisible

the longer he looked at her.
"You sure you're real?" he asked. "I mean_flesh and blood?"
"Flesh and blood." She touched Leo's face and made him flinch. Her fingers
were warm.
"So_you have to repeat everything?" he asked.
"Everything."
Leo couldn't help smiling. "That could be fun."
"Fun," she said unhappily.
"Blue elephants."
"Blue elephants."
"Kiss me, you fool."
"You fool."
"Hey!"
"Hey!"
"Leo," Hazel pleaded, "don't tease her."
"Don't tease her," Echo agreed.
"Okay, okay," Leo said, though he had to resist the urge. It wasn't every day
he met somebody with a built-in talkback feature. "So what were you pointing
at? Do you need our help?"
"Help," Echo agreed emphatically. She gestured for them to follow and
sprinted down the slope. Leo could only follow her progress by the movement of
the grass and the shimmer of her dress as it changed to match the rocks.
"We'd better hurry," Hazel said. "Or we'll lose her."
They found the problem-if you can call a mob of good-looking girls a problem.
Echo led them down into a grassy meadow shaped like a blast crater, with a
small pond in the middle. Gathered at the water's edge were several dozen
nymphs. At least, Leo guessed they were nymphs. Like the ones at Camp HalfBlood, these wore gossamer dresses. Their feet were bare. They had elfish
features, and their skin had a slightly greenish tinge.
Leo didn't understand what they were doing, but they were all crowded
together in one spot, facing the pond and jostling for a better view. Several held

up phone cameras, trying to get a shot over the heads of the others. Leo had
never seen nymphs with phones. He wondered if they were looking at a dead
body. If so, why were they bouncing up and down and giggling so excitedly?
"What are they looking at?" Leo wondered.
"Looking at," Echo sighed.
"One way to find out." Hazel marched forward and began nudging her way
through the crowd. "Excuse us. Pardon me."
"Hey!" one nymph complained. "We were here first!"
"Yeah," another sniffed. "He won't be interested in you."
The second nymph had large red hearts painted on her cheeks. Over her dress,
she wore a T-shirt that read: OMG, I <3 N!!!!
"Uh, demigod business," Leo said, trying to sound official. "Make room.
Thanks."
The nymphs grumbled, but they parted to reveal a young man kneeling at the
edge of the pond, gazing intently at the water.
Leo usually didn't pay much attention to how other guys looked. He
supposed that came from hanging around Jason-tall, blond, rugged, and
basically everything Leo could never be. Leo was used to not being noticed by
girls. At least, he knew he'd never get a girl by his looks. He hoped his
personality and sense of humor would do that someday, though it definitely
hadn't worked yet.
At any rate, Leo couldn't miss the fact that the guy at the pond was one super
good-looking dude. He had a chiseled face with lips and eyes that were
somewhere between feminine beautiful and masculine handsome. Dark hair
swept over his brow. He might've been seventeen or twenty, it was hard to say,
but he was built like a dancer-with long graceful arms and muscular legs,
perfect posture and an air of regal calm. He wore a simple white T-shirt and
jeans, with a bow and quiver strapped to his back. The weapons obviously
hadn't been used in a while. The arrows were covered in dust. A spider had
woven a web in the top of the bow.
As Leo edged closer, he realized the guy's face was unusually golden. In the
sunset, the light was bouncing off a large flat sheet of Celestial bronze that lay at

the bottom of the pond, washing Mr. Handsome's features in a warm glow.
The guy seemed fascinated with his reflection in the metal.
Hazel inhaled sharply. "He's gorgeous."
Around her, the nymphs squealed and clapped in agreement.
"I am," the young man murmured dreamily, his gaze still fixed on the water.
"I am so gorgeous."
One of the nymphs showed her iPhone screen. "His latest YouTube video got
a million hits in like, an hour. I think I was half of those!"
The other nymphs giggled.
"YouTube video?" Leo asked. "What does he do in the video, sing?"
"No, silly!" the nymph chided. "He used to be a prince, and a wonderful
hunter and stuff. But that doesn't matter. Now he just_well, look!" She showed
Leo the video. It was exactly what they were seeing in real life-the guy staring
at himself in the pond.
"He is sooooo hot!" said another girl. Her T-shirt read: MRS. NARCISSUS.
"Narcissus?" Leo asked.
"Narcissus," Echo agreed sadly.
Leo had forgotten Echo was there. Apparently none of the nymphs had
noticed her either.
"Oh, not you again!" Mrs. Narcissus tried to push Echo away, but she
misjudged where the camouflaged girl was and ended up shoving several other
nymphs.
"You had your chance, Echo!" said the nymph with the iPhone. "He dumped
you four thousand years ago! You are so not good enough for him."
"For him," Echo said bitterly.
"Wait." Hazel clearly had trouble tearing her eyes away from the handsome
guy, but she managed it. "What's going on here? Why did Echo bring us here?"
One nymph rolled her eyes. She was holding an autograph pen and a
crumpled poster of Narcissus. "Echo was a nymph like us, a long time ago, but
she was a total chatterbox! Gossiping, blah, blah, blah, all the time."
"I know!" another nymph shrieked. "Like, who could stand that? Just the
other day, I told Cleopeia-you know she lives in the boulder next to me?-I

said: Stop gossiping or you'll end up like Echo. Cleopeia is such a big mouth!
Did you hear what she said about that cloud nymph and the satyr?"
"Totally!" said the nymph with the poster. "So anyway, as punishment for
blabbing, Hera cursed Echo so she could only repeat things, which was fine with
us. But then Echo fell in love with our gorgeous guy, Narcissus-as if he would
ever notice her."
"As if!" said half a dozen others.
"Now she's got some weird idea he needs saving," said Mrs. Narcissus. "She
should just go away."
"Go away," Echo growled back.
"I'm so glad Narcissus is alive again," said another nymph in a gray dress.
She had the words NARCISSUS + LAIEA written up and down her arms in black
marker. "He's like the best! And he's in my territory."
"Oh, stop it, Laiea," her friend said. "I'm the pond nymph. You're just the
rock nymph."
"Well, I'm the grass nymph," another protested.
"No, he obviously came here because he likes the wildflowers!" another said.
"Those are mine!"
The whole mob began arguing while Narcissus stared at the lake, ignoring
them.
"Hold it!" Leo yelled. "Ladies, hold it! I need to ask Narcissus something."
Slowly the nymphs settled down and went back to taking pictures.
Leo knelt next to the handsome dude. "So, Narcissus. What's up?"
"Could you move?" Narcissus asked distractedly. "You're ruining the view."
Leo looked in the water. His own reflection rippled next to Narcissus's on the
surface of the submerged bronze. Leo didn't have any desire to stare at himself.
Compared to Narcissus, he looked like an undergrown troll. But there was no
doubt the metal was a sheet of hammered Celestial bronze, roughly circular,
about five feet in diameter.
What it was doing in this pond, Leo wasn't sure. Celestial bronze fell to earth
in odd places. He'd heard that most pieces were cast off from his dad's various
workshops. Hephaestus would lose his temper when projects didn't work out,

and he'd toss his scraps into the mortal world. This piece looked like it might
have been meant as a shield for a god, but it hadn't turned out properly. If Leo
could get it back to the ship, it would be just enough bronze for his repairs.
"Right, great view," Leo said. "Happy to move, but if you're not using it,
could I just take that sheet of bronze?"
"No," Narcissus said. "I love him. He's so gorgeous."
Leo looked around to see if the nymphs were laughing. This had to be a huge
joke. But they were swooning and nodding in agreement. Only Hazel seemed
appalled. She wrinkled her nose as if she'd come to the conclusion that
Narcissus smelled worse than he looked.
"Man," Leo said to Narcissus. "You do realize that you're looking at yourself
in the water, right?"
"I am so great," Narcissus sighed. He stretched out a hand longingly to touch
the water, but held back. "No, I can't make ripples. That ruins the image.
Wow_I am so great."
"Yeah," Leo muttered. "But if I took the bronze, you could still see yourself
in the water. Or here_" He reached in his tool belt and pulled out a simple
mirror the size of a monocle. "I'll trade you."
Narcissus took the mirror, reluctantly, and admired himself. "Even you carry
a picture of me? I don't blame you. I am gorgeous. Thank you." He set the
mirror down and returned his attention to the pond. "But I already have a much
better image. The color flatters me, don't you think?"
"Oh, gods, yes!" a nymph screamed. "Marry me, Narcissus!"
"No, me!" another cried. "Would you sign my poster?"
"No, sign my shirt!"
"No, sign my forehead!"
"No, sign my-"
"Stop it!" Hazel snapped.
"Stop it," Echo agreed.
Leo had lost sight of Echo again, but now he realized she was kneeling on the
other side of Narcissus, waving her hand in front of his face as if trying to break
his concentration. Narcissus didn't even blink.

The nymph fan club tried to shove Hazel out of the way, but she drew her
cavalry sword and forced them back. "Snap out of it!" she yelled.
"He won't sign your sword," the poster nymph complained.
"He won't marry you," said the iPhone girl. "And you can't take his bronze
mirror! That's what keeps him here!"
"You're all ridiculous," Hazel said. "He's so full of himself! How can you
possibly like him?"
"Like him," Echo sighed, still waving her hand in front of his face.
The others sighed along with her.
"I am so hot," Narcissus said sympathetically.
"Narcissus, listen." Hazel kept her sword at the ready. "Echo brought us here
to help you. Didn't you, Echo?"
"Echo," said Echo.
"Who?" Narcissus said.
"The only girl who cares what happens to you, apparently," Hazel said. "Do
you remember dying?"
Narcissus frowned. "I_no. That can't be right. I am much too important to
die."
"You died staring at yourself," Hazel insisted. "I remember the story now.
Nemesis was the goddess who cursed you, because you broke so many hearts.
Your punishment was to fall in love with your own reflection."
"I love me so, so much," Narcissus agreed.
"You finally died," Hazel continued. "I don't know which version of the
story is true. You either drowned yourself or turned into a flower hanging over
the water or-Echo, which is it?"
"Which is it?" she said hopelessly.
Leo stood. "It doesn't matter. The point is you're alive again, man. You have
a second chance. That's what Nemesis was telling us. You can get up, and get on
with your life. Echo is trying to save you. Or you can stay here and stare at
yourself until you die again."
"Stay here!" all the nymphs screamed.
"Marry me before you die!" another squeaked.

Narcissus shook his head. "You just want my reflection. I don't blame you,
but you can't have it. I belong to me."
Hazel sighed in exasperation. She glanced at the sun, which was sinking fast.
Then she gestured with her sword toward the edge of the crater. "Leo, could we
talk for a minute?"
"Excuse us," Leo told Narcissus. "Echo, want to come with?"
"Come with," Echo confirmed.
The nymphs clustered around Narcissus again and began recording new
videos and taking more photos.
Hazel led the way until they were out of earshot. "Nemesis was right," she
said. "Some demigods can't change their nature. Narcissus is going to stay there
until he dies again."
"No," Leo said.
"No," Echo agreed.
"We need that bronze," Leo said. "If we take it away, it might give Narcissus
a reason to snap out of it. Echo could have a chance to save him."
"A chance to save him," Echo said gratefully.
Hazel stabbed her sword in the sand. "It could also make several dozen
nymphs very angry with us," she said. "And Narcissus might still know how to
shoot his bow."
Leo pondered that. The sun was just about down. Nemesis had mentioned
that Narcissus got agitated after dark, probably because he couldn't see his
reflection anymore. Leo didn't want to stick around long enough to find out what
the goddess meant by agitated. He'd also had experience with mobs of crazed
nymphs. He wasn't anxious to repeat that.
"Hazel," he said, "your power with precious metal- Can you just detect it,
or can you actually summon it to you?"
She frowned. "Sometimes I can summon it. I've never tried with a piece of
Celestial bronze that big before. I might be able to draw it to me through the
earth, but I'd have to be fairly close. It would take a lot of concentration, and it
wouldn't be fast."
"Be fast," Echo warned.

Leo cursed. He had hoped they could just go back to the ship, and Hazel
could teleport the Celestial bronze from a safe distance.
"All right," he said. "We'll have to try something risky. Hazel, how about
you try to summon the bronze from right here? Make it sink through the sand
and tunnel over to you, then grab it and run for the ship."
"But Narcissus is looking at it all the time," she said.
"All the time," Echo echoed.
"That'll be my job," Leo said, hating his own plan already. "Echo and I will
cause a distraction."
"Distraction?" Echo asked.
"I'll explain," Leo promised. "Are you willing?"
"Willing," Echo said.
"Great," Leo said. "Now, let's hope we don't die."

LEO PSYCHED HIMSELF UP for an extreme makeover. He summoned some breath
mints and a pair of welding goggles from his tool belt. The goggles weren't
exactly sunglasses, but they'd have to do. He rolled up the sleeves of his shirt.
He used some machine oil to grease back his hair. He stuck a wrench in his back
pocket (why exactly, he wasn't sure) and he had Hazel draw a tattoo on his
biceps with a marker: HOT STUFF, with a skull and crossbones.
"What in the world are you thinking?" She sounded pretty flustered.
"I try not to think," Leo admitted. "It interferes with being nuts. Just
concentrate on moving that Celestial bronze. Echo, you ready?"
"Ready," she said.
Leo took a deep breath. He strutted back toward the pond, hoping he looked
awesome and not like he had some sort of nervous affliction. "Leo is the
coolest!" he shouted.
"Leo is the coolest!" Echo shouted back.
"Yeah, baby, check me out!"
"Check me out!" Echo said.
"Make way for the king!"
"The king!"

"Narcissus is weak!"
"Weak!"
The crowd of nymphs scattered in surprise. Leo shooed them away as if they
were bothering him. "No autographs, girls. I know you want some Leo time, but
I'm way too cool. You better just hang around that ugly dweeb Narcissus. He's
lame!"
"Lame!" Echo said with enthusiasm.
The nymphs muttered angrily.
"What are you talking about?" one demanded.
"You're lame," said another.
Leo adjusted his goggles and smiled. He flexed his biceps, though he didn't
have much to flex, and showed off his HOT STUFF tattoo. He had the nymphs'
attention, if only because they were stunned; but Narcissus was still fixed on his
own reflection.
"You know how ugly Narcissus is?" Leo asked the crowd. "He's so ugly,
when he was born his mama thought he was a backward centaur-with a horse
butt for a face."
Some of the nymphs gasped. Narcissus frowned, as though he was vaguely
aware of a gnat buzzing around his head.
"You know why his bow has cobwebs?" Leo continued. "He uses it to hunt
for dates, but he can't find one!"
One of the nymphs laughed. The others quickly elbowed her into silence.
Narcissus turned and scowled at Leo. "Who are you?"
"I'm the Super-sized McShizzle, man!" Leo said. "I'm Leo Valdez, bad boy
supreme. And the ladies love a bad boy."
"Love a bad boy!" Echo said, with a convincing squeal.
Leo took out a pen and autographed the arm of one of the nymphs. "Narcissus
is a loser! He's so weak, he can't bench-press a Kleenex. He's so lame, when
you look up lame on Wikipedia, it's got a picture of Narcissus-only the
picture's so ugly, no one ever checks it out."
Narcissus knit his handsome eyebrows. His face was turning from bronze to
salmon pink. For the moment, he'd totally forgotten about the pond, and Leo

could see the sheet of bronze sinking into the sand.
"What are you talking about?" Narcissus demanded. "I am amazing.
Everyone knows this."
"Amazing at pure suck," Leo said. "If I was as suck as you, I'd drown myself.
Oh wait, you already did that."
Another nymph giggled. Then another. Narcissus growled, which did make
him look a little less handsome. Meanwhile Leo beamed and wiggled his
eyebrows over his goggles and spread his hands, gesturing for applause.
"That's right!" he said. "Team Leo for the win!"
"Team Leo for the win!" Echo shouted. She'd wriggled into the mob of
nymphs, and because she was so hard to see, the nymphs apparently thought the
voice came from one of their own.
"Oh my god, I am so awesome!" Leo bellowed.
"So awesome!" Echo yelled back.
"He is funny," a nymph ventured.
"And cute, in a scrawny way," another said.
"Scrawny?" Leo asked. "Baby, I invented scrawny. Scrawny is the new
sizzling hot. And I GOT the scrawny. Narcissus? He's such a loser even the
Underworld didn't want him. He couldn't get the ghost girls to date him."
"Eww," said a nymph.
"Eww!" Echo agreed.
"Stop!" Narcissus got to his feet. "This is not right! This person is obviously
not awesome, so he must be_" He struggled for the right words. It had probably
been a long time since he'd talked about anything other than himself. "He must
be tricking us."
Apparently Narcissus wasn't completely stupid. Realization dawned on his
face. He turned back to the pond. "The bronze mirror is gone! My reflection!
Give me back to me!"
"Team Leo!" one of the nymphs squeaked. But the others returned their
attention to Narcissus.
"I'm the beautiful one!" Narcissus insisted. "He's stolen my mirror, and I'm
going to leave unless we get it back!"

The girls gasped. One pointed. "There!"
Hazel was at the top of the crater, running away as fast as she could while
lugging a large sheet of bronze.
"Get it back!" cried a nymph.
Probably against her will, Echo muttered, "Get it back."
"Yes!" Narcissus unslung his bow and grabbed an arrow from his dusty
quiver. "The first one who gets that bronze, I will like you almost as much as I
like me. I might even kiss you, right after I kiss my reflection!"
"Oh my gods!" the nymphs screamed.
"And kill those demigods!" Narcissus added, glaring very handsomely at
Leo. "They are not as cool as me!"
Leo could run pretty fast when someone was trying to kill him. Sadly, he'd had a
lot of practice.
He overtook Hazel, which was easy, since she was struggling with fifty
pounds of Celestial bronze. He took one side of the metal plate and glanced
back. Narcissus was nocking an arrow, but it was so old and brittle, it broke into
splinters.
"Ow!" he yelled very attractively. "My manicure!"
Normally nymphs were quick-at least the ones at Camp Half-Blood were-
but these were burdened with posters, T-shirts, and other Narcissus_
merchandise. The nymphs also weren't great at working as a team. They kept
stumbling over one another, pushing and shoving. Echo made things worse by
running among them, tripping and tackling as many as she could.
Still, they were closing rapidly.
"Call Arion!" Leo gasped.
"Already did!" Hazel said.
They ran for the beach. They made it to the edge of the water and could see
the Argo II, but there was no way to get there. It was much too far to swim, even
if they hadn't been toting bronze.
Leo turned. The mob was coming over the dunes, Narcissus in the lead,
holding his bow like a band major's baton. The nymphs had conjured assorted

weapons. Some held rocks. Some had wooden clubs wreathed in flowers. A few
of the water nymphs had squirt guns-which seemed not quite as terrifying-but
the look in their eyes was still murderous.
"Oh, man," Leo muttered, summoning fire in his free hand. "Straight-up
fighting isn't my thing."
"Hold the Celestial bronze." Hazel drew her sword. "Get behind me!"
"Get behind me!" Echo repeated. The camouflaged girl was racing ahead of
the mob now. She stopped in front of Leo and turned, spreading her arms as if
she meant to personally shield him.
"Echo?" Leo could hardly talk with the lump in his throat. "You're one brave
nymph."
"Brave nymph?" Her tone made it a question.
"I'm proud to have you on Team Leo," he said. "If we survive this, you
should forget Narcissus."
"Forget Narcissus?" she said uncertainly.
"You're way too good for him."
The nymphs surrounded them in a semicircle.
"Trickery!" Narcissus said. "They don't love me, girls! We all love me, don't
we?"
"Yes!" the girls screamed, except for one confused nymph in a yellow dress
who squeaked, "Team Leo!"
"Kill them!" Narcissus ordered.
The nymphs surged forward, but the sand in front of them exploded. Arion
raced out of nowhere, circling the mob so quickly he created a sandstorm,
showering the nymphs in white lime, spraying their eyes.
"I love this horse!" Leo said.
The nymphs collapsed, coughing and gagging. Narcissus stumbled around
blindly, swinging his bow like he was trying to hit a pinata.
Hazel climbed into the saddle, hoisted up the bronze, and offered Leo a hand.
"We can't leave Echo!" Leo said.
"Leave Echo," the nymph repeated.
She smiled, and for the first time Leo could clearly see her face. She really

was pretty. Her eyes were bluer than he'd realized. How had he missed that?
"Why?" Leo asked. "You don't think you can still save Narcissus_"
"Save Narcissus," she said confidently. And even though it was only an echo,
Leo could tell that she meant it. She'd been given a second chance at life, and
she was determined to use it to save the guy she loved-even if he was a
completely hopeless (though very handsome) moron.
Leo wanted to protest, but Echo leaned forward and kissed him on the cheek,
then pushed him gently away.
"Leo, come on!" Hazel called.
The other nymphs were starting to recover. They wiped the lime out of their
eyes, which were now glowing green with anger. Leo looked for Echo again, but
she had dissolved into the scenery.
"Yeah," he said, his throat dry. "Yeah, okay."
He climbed up behind Hazel. Arion took off across the water, the nymphs
screaming behind them, and Narcissus shouting, "Bring me back! Bring me
back!"
As Arion raced toward the Argo II, Leo remembered what Nemesis had said
about Echo and Narcissus: Perhaps they'll teach you a lesson.
Leo had thought she'd meant Narcissus, but now he wondered if the real
lesson for him was Echo-invisible to her brethren, cursed to love someone who
didn't care for her. A seventh wheel. He tried to shake that thought. He clung to
the sheet of bronze like a shield.
He was determined never to forget Echo's face. She deserved at least one
person who saw her and knew how good she was. Leo closed his eyes, but the
memory of her smile was already fading.

PIPER DIDN'T WANT TO USE THE KNIFE.
But sitting in Jason's cabin, waiting for him to wake up, she felt alone and
helpless.
Jason's face was so pale, he might've been dead. She remembered the awful
sound of that brick hitting his forehead-an injury that had happened only
because he'd tried to shield her from the Romans.
Even with the nectar and ambrosia they'd managed to force-feed him, Piper
couldn't be sure he would be okay when he woke up. What if he'd lost his
memories again-but this time, his memories of her?
That would be the cruelest trick the gods had played on her yet, and they'd
played some pretty cruel tricks.
She heard Gleeson Hedge in his room next door, humming a military song
-"Stars and Stripes Forever," maybe? Since the satellite TV was out, the satyr
was probably sitting on his bunk reading back issues of Guns & Ammo
magazine. He wasn't a bad chaperone, but he was definitely the most warlike old
goat Piper had ever met.
Of course she was grateful to the satyr. He had helped her dad, movie actor
Tristan McLean, get back on his feet after being kidnapped by giants the past

winter. A few weeks ago, Hedge had asked his girlfriend, Mellie, to take charge
of the McLean household so he could come along to help with this quest.
Coach Hedge had tried to make it sound like returning to Camp Half-Blood
had been all his idea, but Piper suspected there was more to it. The last few
weeks, whenever Piper called home, her dad and Mellie had asked her what was
wrong. Maybe something in her voice had tipped them off.
Piper couldn't share the visions she'd seen. They were too disturbing.
Besides, her dad had taken a potion that had erased all of Piper's demigod
secrets from his memory. But he could still tell when she was upset, and she was
pretty sure her dad had encouraged Coach to look out for her.
She shouldn't draw her blade. It would only make her feel worse.
Finally the temptation was too great. She unsheathed Katoptris. It didn't look
very special, just a triangular blade with an unadorned hilt, but it had once been
owned by Helen of Troy. The dagger's name meant "looking glass."
Piper gazed at the bronze blade. At first, she saw only her reflection. Then
light rippled across the metal. She saw a crowd of Roman demigods gathered in
the forum. The blond scarecrow-looking kid, Octavian, was speaking to the mob,
shaking his fist. Piper couldn't hear him, but the gist was obvious: We need to
kill those Greeks!
Reyna, the praetor, stood to one side, her face tight with suppressed emotion.
Bitterness? Anger? Piper wasn't sure.
She'd been prepared to hate Reyna, but she couldn't. During the feast in the
forum, Piper had admired the way Reyna kept her feelings in check.
Reyna had sized up Piper and Jason's relationship right away. As a daughter
of Aphrodite, Piper could tell stuff like that. Yet Reyna had stayed polite and in
control. She'd put her camp's needs ahead of her emotions. She'd given the
Greeks a fair chance_right up until the Argo II had started destroying her city.
She'd almost made Piper feel guilty about being Jason's girlfriend, though
that was silly. Jason hadn't ever been Reyna's boyfriend, not really.
Maybe Reyna wasn't so bad, but it didn't matter now. They'd messed up the
chance for peace. Piper's power of persuasion had, for once, done absolutely no
good.

Her secret fear? Maybe she hadn't tried hard enough. Piper had never wanted
to make friends with the Romans. She was too worried about losing Jason to his
old life. Maybe unconsciously she hadn't put her best effort into the charmspeak.
Now Jason was hurt. The ship had been almost destroyed. And according to
her dagger, that crazy teddy-bear-strangling kid, Octavian, was whipping the
Romans into a war frenzy.
The scene in her blade shifted. There was a rapid series of images she'd seen
before, but she still didn't understand them: Jason riding into battle on
horseback, his eyes gold instead of blue; a woman in an old-fashioned Southern
belle dress, standing in an oceanside park with palm trees; a bull with the face of
a bearded man, rising out of a river; and two giants in matching yellow togas,
hoisting a rope on a pulley system, lifting a large bronze vase out of a pit.
Then came the worst vision: she saw herself with Jason and Percy, standing
waist-deep in water at the bottom of a dark circular chamber, like a giant well.
Ghostly shapes moved through the water as it rose rapidly. Piper clawed at the
walls, trying to escape, but there was nowhere to go. The water reached their
chests. Jason was pulled under. Percy stumbled and disappeared.
How could a child of the sea god drown? Piper didn't know, but she watched
herself in the vision, alone and thrashing in the dark, until the water rose over
her head.
Piper shut her eyes. Don't show me that again, she pleaded. Show me
something helpful.
She forced herself to look at the blade again.
This time, she saw an empty highway cutting between fields of wheat and
sunflowers. A mileage marker read: TOPEKA 32. On the shoulder of the road
stood a man in khaki shorts and a purple camp shirt. His face was lost in the
shadow of a broad hat, the brim wreathed in leafy vines. He held up a silver
goblet and beckoned to Piper. Somehow she knew he was offering her some sort
of gift-a cure, or an antidote.
"Hey," Jason croaked.
Piper was so startled she dropped the knife. "You're awake!"
"Don't sound so surprised." Jason touched his bandaged head and frowned.

"What_what happened? I remember the explosions, and-"
"You remember who I am?"
Jason tried to laugh, but it turned into a painful wince. "Last I checked, you
were my awesome girlfriend Piper. Unless something has changed since I was
out?"
Piper was so relieved she almost sobbed. She helped him sit up and gave him
some nectar to sip while she brought him up to speed. She was just explaining
Leo's plan to fix the ship when she heard horse hooves clomping across the deck
over their heads.
Moments later, Leo and Hazel stumbled to a stop in the doorway, carrying a
large sheet of hammered bronze between them.
"Gods of Olympus." Piper stared at Leo. "What happened to you?"
His hair was greased back. He had welding goggles on his forehead, a lipstick
mark on his cheek, tattoos all over his arms, and a T-shirt that read HOT STUFF,
BAD BOY, and TEAM LEO.
"Long story," he said. "Others back?"
"Not yet," Piper said.
Leo cursed. Then he noticed Jason sitting up, and his face brightened. "Hey,
man! Glad you're better. I'll be in the engine room."
He ran off with the sheet of bronze, leaving Hazel in the doorway.
Piper raised an eyebrow at her. "Team Leo?"
"We met Narcissus," Hazel said, which didn't really explain much. "Also
Nemesis, the revenge goddess."
Jason sighed. "I miss all the fun."
On the deck above, something went THUMP, as if a heavy creature had
landed. Annabeth and Percy came running down the hall. Percy was toting a
steaming five-gallon plastic bucket that smelled horrible. Annabeth had a patch
of black sticky stuff in her hair. Percy's shirt was covered in it.
"Roofing tar?" Piper guessed.
Frank stumbled up behind them, which made the hallway pretty jam-packed
with demigods. Frank had a big smear of the black sludge down his face.
"Ran into some tar monsters," Annabeth said. "Hey, Jason, glad you're

awake. Hazel, where's Leo?"
She pointed down. "Engine room."
Suddenly the entire ship listed to port. The demigods stumbled. Percy almost
spilled his bucket of tar.
"Uh, what was that?" he demanded.
"Oh_" Hazel looked embarrassed. "We may have angered the nymphs who
live in this lake. Like_all of them."
"Great." Percy handed the bucket of tar to Frank and Annabeth. "You guys
help Leo. I'll hold off the water spirits as long as I can."
"On it!" Frank promised.
The three of them ran off, leaving Hazel at the cabin door. The ship listed
again, and Hazel hugged her stomach like she was going to be sick.
"I'll just_" She swallowed, pointed weakly down the passageway, and ran
off.
Jason and Piper stayed below as the ship rocked back and forth. For a hero,
Piper felt pretty useless. Waves crashed against the hull as angry voices came
from above deck-Percy shouting, Coach Hedge yelling at the lake. Festus the
figurehead breathed fire several times. Down the hall, Hazel moaned miserably
in her cabin. In the engine room below, it sounded like Leo and the others were
doing an Irish line dance with anvils tied to their feet. After what seemed like
hours, the engine began to hum. The oars creaked and groaned, and Piper felt the
ship lift into the air.
The rocking and shaking stopped. The ship became quiet except for the drone
of machinery. Finally Leo emerged from the engine room. He was caked in
sweat, lime dust, and tar. His T-shirt looked like it had been caught in an
escalator and chewed to shreds. The TEAM LEO on his chest now read: AM LEO.
But he grinned like a madman and announced that they were safely under way.
"Meeting in the mess hall, one hour," he said. "Crazy day, huh?"
After everyone had cleaned up, Coach Hedge took the helm and the demigods
gathered below for dinner. It was the first time they'd all sat down together-just
the seven of them. Maybe their presence should've reassured Piper, but seeing

all of them in one place only reminded her that the Prophecy of Seven was
unfolding at last. No more waiting for Leo to finish the ship. No more easy days
at Camp Half-Blood, pretending the future was still a long way off. They were
under way, with a bunch of angry Romans behind them and the ancient lands
ahead. The giants would be waiting. Gaea was rising. And unless they succeeded
in this quest, the world would be destroyed.
The others must've felt it too. The tension in the mess hall was like an
electrical storm brewing, which was totally possible, considering Percy's and
Jason's powers. In an awkward moment, the two boys tried to sit in the same
chair at the head of the table. Sparks literally flew from Jason's hands. After a
brief silent standoff, like they were both thinking, Seriously, dude?, they ceded
the chair to Annabeth and sat at opposite sides of the table.
The crew compared notes on what had happened in Salt Lake City, but even
Leo's ridiculous story about how he tricked Narcissus wasn't enough to cheer up
the group.
"So where to now?" Leo asked with a mouthful of pizza. "I did a quick repair
job to get us out of the lake, but there's still a lot of damage. We should really
put down again and fix things right before we head across the Atlantic."
Percy was eating a piece of pie, which for some reason was completely blue
-filling, crust, even the whipped cream. "We need to put some distance
between us and Camp Jupiter," he said. "Frank spotted some eagles over Salt
Lake City. We figure the Romans aren't far behind us."
That didn't improve the mood around the table. Piper didn't want to say
anything, but she felt obliged_and a little guilty. "I don't suppose we should go
back and try to reason with the Romans? Maybe-maybe I didn't try hard
enough with the charmspeak."
Jason took her hand. "It wasn't your fault, Pipes. Or Leo's," he added
quickly. "Whatever happened, it was Gaea's doing, to drive the two camps
apart."
Piper was grateful for his support, but she still felt uneasy. "Maybe if we
could explain that, though-"
"With no proof?" Annabeth asked. "And no idea what really happened? I

appreciate what you're saying, Piper. I don't want the Romans on our bad side,
but until we understand what Gaea's up to, going back is suicide."
"She's right," Hazel said. She still looked a little queasy from seasickness,
but she was trying to eat a few saltine crackers. The rim of her plate was
embedded with rubies, and Piper was pretty sure they hadn't been there at the
beginning of the meal. "Reyna might listen, but Octavian won't. The Romans
have honor to think about. They've been attacked. They'll shoot first and ask
questions post hac."
Piper stared at her own dinner. The magical plates could conjure up a great
selection of vegetarian stuff. She especially liked the avocado and grilled pepper
quesadilla, but tonight she didn't have much of an appetite.
She thought about the visions she'd seen in her knife: Jason with golden eyes;
the bull with the human head; the two giants in yellow togas hoisting a bronze
jar from a pit. Worst of all, she remembered herself drowning in black water.
Piper had always liked the water. She had good memories of surfing with her
dad. But since she'd started seeing that vision in Katoptris, she'd been thinking
more and more of an old Cherokee story her granddad used to tell to keep her
away from the river near his cabin. He told her the Cherokees believed in good
water spirits, like the naiads of the Greeks; but they also believed in evil water
spirits, the water cannibals, who hunted mortals with invisible arrows and were
especially fond of drowning small children.
"You're right," she decided. "We have to keep going. Not just because of the
Romans. We have to hurry."
Hazel nodded. "Nemesis said we have only six days until Nico dies and
Rome is destroyed."
Jason frowned. "You mean Rome Rome, not New Rome?"
"I think," Hazel said. "But if so, that's not much time."
"Why six days?" Percy wondered. "And how are they going to destroy
Rome?"
No one answered. Piper didn't want to add further bad news, but she felt she
had to.
"There's more," she said. "I've been seeing some things in my knife."

The big kid, Frank, froze with a forkful of spaghetti halfway to his mouth.
"Things such as_ ?"
"They don't really make sense," Piper said, "just garbled images, but I saw
two giants, dressed alike. Maybe twins."
Annabeth stared at the magical video feed from Camp Half-Blood on the
wall. Right now it showed the living room in the Big House: a cozy fire on the
hearth and Seymour, the stuffed leopard head, snoring contentedly above the
mantel.
"Twins, like in Ella's prophecy," Annabeth said. "If we could figure out those
lines, it might help."
"Wisdom's daughter walks alone," Percy said. "The Mark of Athena burns
through Rome. Annabeth, that's got to mean you. Juno told me_well, she said
you had a hard task ahead of you in Rome. She said she doubted you could do it.
But I know she's wrong."
Annabeth took a long breath. "Reyna was about to tell me something right
before the ship fired on us. She said there was an old legend among the Roman
praetors-something that had to do with Athena. She said it might be the reason
Greeks and Romans could never get along."
Leo and Hazel exchanged nervous looks.
"Nemesis mentioned something similar," Leo said. "She talked about an old
score that had to be settled-"
"The one thing that might bring the gods' two natures into harmony," Hazel
recalled. "'An old wrong finally avenged.'"
Percy drew a frowny face in his blue whipped cream. "I was only a praetor
for about two hours. Jason, you ever hear a legend like that?"
Jason was still holding Piper's hand. His fingers had turned clammy.
"I_uh, I'm not sure," he said. "I'll give it some thought."
Percy narrowed his eyes. "You're not sure?"
Jason didn't respond. Piper wanted to ask him what was wrong. She could tell
he didn't want to discuss this old legend. She caught his eye, and he pleaded
silently, Later.
Hazel broke the silence. "What about the other lines?" She turned her ruby-

encrusted plate. "Twins snuff out the angel's breath, Who holds the key to
endless death."
"Giants' bane stands gold and pale," Frank added, "Won through pain from
a woven jail."
"Giants' bane," Leo said. "Anything that's a giants' bane is good for us,
right? That's probably what we need to find. If it can help the gods get their
schizophrenic act together, that's good."
Percy nodded. "We can't kill the giants without the help of the gods."
Jason turned to Frank and Hazel. "I thought you guys killed that one giant in
Alaska without a god's help, just the two of you."
"Alcyoneus was a special case," Frank said. "He was only immortal in the
territory where he was reborn-Alaska. But not in Canada. I wish I could kill all
the giants by dragging them across the border from Alaska into Canada, but_"
He shrugged. "Percy's right, we'll need the gods."
Piper gazed at the walls. She really wished Leo hadn't enchanted them with
images of Camp Half-Blood. It was like a doorway to home that she could never
go through. She watched the hearth of Hestia burning in the middle of the green
as the cabins turned off their lights for curfew.
She wondered how the Roman demigods, Frank and Hazel, felt about those
images. They'd never even been to Camp Half-Blood. Did it seem alien to them,
or unfair that Camp Jupiter wasn't represented? Did it make them miss their own
home?
The other lines of the prophecy turned in Piper's mind. What was a woven
jail? How could twins snuff out an angel's breath? The key to endless death
didn't sound very cheerful, either.
"So_" Leo pushed his chair away from the table. "First things first, I guess.
We'll have to put down in the morning to finish repairs."
"Someplace close to a city," Annabeth suggested, "in case we need supplies.
But somewhere out of the way, so the Romans will have trouble finding us. Any
ideas?"
No one spoke. Piper remembered her vision in the knife: the strange man in
purple, holding out a goblet and beckoning to her. He'd been standing in front of

a sign that read TOPEKA 32.
"Well," she ventured, "how do you guys feel about Kansas?"

PIPER HAD TROUBLE FALLING ASLEEP.
Coach Hedge spent the first hour after curfew doing his nightly duty, walking
up and down the passageway yelling, "Lights out! Settle down! Try to sneak out,
and I'll smack you back to Long Island!"
He banged his baseball bat against a cabin door whenever he heard a noise,
shouting at everyone to go to sleep, which made it impossible for anyone to go
to sleep. Piper figured this was the most fun the satyr had had since he'd
pretended to be a gym teacher at the Wilderness School.
She stared at the bronze beams on the ceiling. Her cabin was pretty cozy. Leo
had programmed their quarters to adjust automatically to the occupant's
preferred temperature, so it was never too cold or too hot. The mattress and the
pillows were stuffed with pegasus down (no pegasi were harmed in the making
of these products, Leo had assured her), so they were uber-comfortable. A
bronze lantern hung from the ceiling, glowing at whatever brightness Piper
wished. The lantern's sides were perforated with pinholes, so at night
glimmering constellations drifted across her walls.
Piper had so many things on her mind, she thought she'd never sleep. But

there was something peaceful about the rocking of the boat and the drone of the
aerial oars as they scooped through the sky.
Finally her eyelids got heavy, and she drifted off.
It seemed like only a few seconds had passed before she woke to the
breakfast bell.
"Yo, Piper!" Leo knocked on her door. "We're landing!"
"Landing?" She sat up groggily.
Leo opened her door and poked his head in. He had his hand over his eyes,
which would've been a nice gesture if he hadn't been peeking through his
fingers. "You decent?"
"Leo!"
"Sorry." He grinned. "Hey, nice Power Ranger jammies."
"They are not Power Rangers! They're Cherokee eagles!"
"Yeah, sure. Anyway, we're setting down a few miles outside Topeka, as
requested. And, um_" He glanced out in the passageway, then leaned inside
again. "Thanks for not hating me, about blowing up the Romans yesterday."
Piper rubbed her eyes. The feast in New Rome had been only yesterday?
"That's okay, Leo. You weren't in control of yourself."
"Yeah, but still_you didn't have to stick up for me."
"Are you kidding? You're like the annoying little brother I never had. Of
course I'll stick up for you."
"Uh_thanks?"
From above, Coach Hedge yelled, "Thar she blows! Kansas, ahoy!"
"Holy Hephaestus," Leo muttered. "He really needs to work on his shipspeak.
I'd better get above deck."
By the time Piper had showered, changed, and grabbed a bagel from the mess
hall, she could hear the ship's landing gear extending. She climbed on deck and
joined the others as the Argo II settled in the middle of a field of sunflowers. The
oars retracted. The gangplank lowered itself.
The morning air smelled of irrigation, warm plants, and fertilized earth. Not a
bad smell. It reminded Piper of Grandpa Tom's place in Tahlequah, Oklahoma,
back on the reservation.

Percy was the first to notice her. He smiled in greeting, which for some
reason surprised Piper. He was wearing faded jeans and a fresh orange Camp
Half-Blood T-shirt, as if he'd never been away from the Greek side. The new
clothes had probably helped his mood-and of course the fact that he was
standing at the rail with his arm around Annabeth.
Piper was happy to see Annabeth with a sparkle in her eyes, because Piper
had never had a better friend. For months, Annabeth had been tormenting
herself, her every waking moment consumed with the search for Percy. Now,
despite the dangerous quest they were facing, at least she had her boyfriend
back.
"So!" Annabeth plucked the bagel out of Piper's hand and took a bite, but
that didn't bother Piper. Back at camp, they'd had a running joke about stealing
each other's breakfast. "Here we are. What's the plan?"
"I want to check out the highway," Piper said. "Find the sign that says
Topeka 32."
Leo spun his Wii controller in a circle, and the sails lowered themselves. "We
shouldn't be far," he said. "Festus and I calculated the landing as best we could.
What do you expect to find at the mile marker?"
Piper explained what she'd seen in the knife-the man in purple with a
goblet. She kept quiet about the other images, though, like the vision of Percy,
Jason, and herself drowning. She wasn't sure what it meant, anyway; and
everyone seemed in such better spirits this morning, she didn't want to ruin the
mood.
"Purple shirt?" Jason asked. "Vines on his hat? Sounds like Bacchus."
"Dionysus," Percy muttered. "If we came all the way to Kansas to see Mr. D
-"
"Bacchus isn't so bad," Jason said. "I don't like his followers much._"
Piper shuddered. Jason, Leo, and she had had an encounter with the maenads
a few months ago and almost gotten torn to pieces.
"But the god himself is okay," Jason continued. "I did him a favor once up in
the wine country."
Percy looked appalled. "Whatever, man. Maybe he's better on the Roman

side. But why would he be hanging around in Kansas? Didn't Zeus order the
gods to cease all contact with mortals?"
Frank grunted. The big guy was wearing a blue tracksuit this morning, like he
was ready to go for a jog in the sunflowers.
"The gods haven't been very good at following that order," he noted.
"Besides, if the gods have gone schizophrenic like Hazel said-"
"And Leo said," added Leo.
Frank scowled at him. "Then who knows what's going on with the
Olympians? Could be some pretty bad stuff out there."
"Sounds dangerous!" Leo agreed cheerfully. "Well_you guys have fun. I've
got to finish repairs on the hull. Coach Hedge is gonna work on the broken
crossbows. And, uh, Annabeth-I could really use your help. You're the only
other person who even sort of understands engineering."
Annabeth looked apologetically at Percy. "He's right. I should stay and help."
"I'll come back to you." He kissed her on the cheek. "Promise."
They were so easy together, it made Piper's heart ache.
Jason was great, of course. But sometimes he acted so distant, like last night,
when he'd been reluctant to talk about that old Roman legend. So often he
seemed to be thinking of his old life at Camp Jupiter. Piper wondered if she
would ever be able to break through that barrier.
The trip to Camp Jupiter, seeing Reyna in person, hadn't helped. Neither did
the fact that Jason had chosen to wear a purple shirt today-the color of the
Romans.
Frank slid his bow off his shoulder and propped it against the rail. "I think I
should turn into a crow or something and fly around, keep an eye out for Roman
eagles."
"Why a crow?" Leo asked. "Man, if you can turn into a dragon, why don't
you just turn into a dragon every time? That's the coolest."
Frank's face looked like it was being infused with cranberry juice. "That's
like asking why you don't bench-press your maximum weight every time you
lift. Because it's hard, and you'd hurt yourself. Turning into a dragon isn't easy."
"Oh." Leo nodded. "I wouldn't know. I don't lift weights."

"Yeah. Well, maybe you should consider it, Mr.-"
Hazel stepped between them.
"I'll help you, Frank," she said, shooting Leo an evil look. "I can summon
Arion and scout around below."
"Sure," Frank said, still glaring at Leo. "Yeah, thanks."
Piper wondered what was going on with those three. The boys showing off
for Hazel and razzing each other-that she understood. But it almost seemed
like Hazel and Leo had a history. So far as she knew, they'd met for the first
time just yesterday. She wondered if something else had happened on their trip
to the Great Salt Lake-something they hadn't mentioned.
Hazel turned to Percy. "Just be careful when you go out there. Lots of fields,
lots of crops. Could be karpoi on the loose."
"Karpoi?" Piper asked.
"Grain spirits," Hazel said. "You don't want to meet them."
Piper didn't see how a grain spirit could be so bad, but Hazel's tone
convinced her not to ask.
"That leaves three of us to check on the mile marker," Percy said. "Me,
Jason, Piper. I'm not psyched about seeing Mr. D again. That guy is a pain. But,
Jason, if you're on better terms with him-"
"Yeah," Jason said. "If we find him, I'll talk to him. Piper, it's your vision.
You should take the lead."
Piper shivered. She'd seen the three of them drowning in that dark well. Was
Kansas where it would happen? That didn't seem right, but she couldn't be sure.
"Of course," she said, trying to sound upbeat. "Let's find the highway."
Leo had said they were close. His idea of "close" needed some work.
After trudging half a mile through hot fields, getting bitten by mosquitoes and
whacked in the face with scratchy sunflowers, they finally reached the road. An
old billboard for Bubba's Gas 'n' Grub indicated they were still forty miles from
the first Topeka exit.
"Correct my math," Percy said, "but doesn't that mean we have eight miles to
walk?"

Jason peered both ways down the deserted road. He looked better today,
thanks to the magical healing of ambrosia and nectar. His color was back to
normal, and the scar on his forehead had almost vanished. The new gladius that
Hera had given him last winter hung at his belt. Most guys would look pretty
awkward walking around with a scabbard strapped to their jeans, but on Jason it
seemed perfectly natural.
"No cars_" he said. "But I guess we wouldn't want to hitchhike."
"No," Piper agreed, gazing nervously down the highway. "We've already
spent too much time going overland. The earth is Gaea's territory."
"Hmm_" Jason snapped his fingers. "I can call a friend for a ride."
Percy raised his eyebrows. "Oh, yeah? Me too. Let's see whose friend gets
here first."
Jason whistled. Piper knew what he was doing, but he'd succeeded in
summoning Tempest only three times since they'd met the storm spirit at the
Wolf House last winter. Today, the sky was so blue, Piper didn't see how it
could work.
Percy simply closed his eyes and concentrated.
Piper hadn't studied him up close before. After hearing so much at Camp
Half-Blood about Percy Jackson this and Percy Jackson that, she thought he
looked_well, unimpressive, especially next to Jason. Percy was more slender,
about an inch shorter, with slightly longer, much darker hair.
He wasn't really Piper's type. If she'd seen him in the mall somewhere, she
probably would've thought he was a skater-cute in a scruffy way, a little on the
wild side, definitely a troublemaker. She would have steered clear. She had
enough trouble in her life. But she could see why Annabeth liked him, and she
could definitely see why Percy needed Annabeth in his life. If anybody could
keep a guy like that under control, it was Annabeth.
Thunder crackled in the clear sky.
Jason smiled. "Soon."
"Too late." Percy pointed east, where a black winged shape was spiraling
toward them. At first, Piper thought it might be Frank in crow form. Then she
realized it was much too big to be a bird.

"A black pegasus?" she said. "Never seen one like that."
The winged stallion came in for a landing. He trotted over to Percy and
nuzzled his face, then turned his head inquisitively toward Piper and Jason.
"Blackjack," Percy said, "this is Piper and Jason. They're friends."
The horse nickered.
"Uh, maybe later," Percy answered.
Piper had heard that Percy could speak to horses, being the son of the horse
lord Poseidon, but she'd never seen it in action.
"What does Blackjack want?" she asked.
"Donuts," Percy said. "Always donuts. He can carry all three of us if-"
Suddenly the air turned cold. Piper's ears popped. About fifty yards away, a
miniature cyclone three stories tall tore across the tops of the sunflowers like a
scene from The Wizard of Oz. It touched down on the road next to Jason and
took the form of a horse-a misty steed with lightning flickering through its
body.
"Tempest," Jason said, grinning broadly. "Long time, my friend."
The storm spirit reared and whinnied. Blackjack backed up skittishly.
"Easy, boy," Percy said. "He's a friend too." He gave Jason an impressed
look. "Nice ride, Grace."
Jason shrugged. "I made friends with him during our fight at the Wolf House.
He's a free spirit, literally, but once in a while he agrees to help me."
Percy and Jason climbed on their respective horses. Piper had never been
comfortable with Tempest. Riding full gallop on a beast that could vaporize at
any moment made her a bit nervous. Nevertheless, she accepted Jason's hand
and climbed on.
Tempest raced down the road with Blackjack soaring overhead. Fortunately,
they didn't pass any cars, or they might have caused a wreck. In no time, they
arrived at the thirty-two-mile marker, which looked exactly as Piper had seen it
in her vision.
Blackjack landed. Both horses pawed the asphalt. Neither looked pleased to
have stopped so suddenly, just when they'd found their stride.
Blackjack whinnied.

"You're right," Percy said. "No sign of the wine dude."
"I beg your pardon?" said a voice from the fields.
Tempest turned so quickly, Piper almost fell off.
The wheat parted, and the man from her vision stepped into view. He wore a
wide-brimmed hat wreathed in grapevines, a purple short-sleeved shirt, khaki
shorts, and Birkenstocks with white socks. He looked maybe thirty, with a slight
potbelly, like a frat boy who hadn't yet realized college was over.
"Did someone just call me the wine dude?" he asked in a lazy drawl. "It's
Bacchus, please. Or Mr. Bacchus. Or Lord Bacchus. Or, sometimes, Oh-MyGods-Please-Don't-Kill-Me, Lord Bacchus."
Percy urged Blackjack forward, though the pegasus didn't seem happy about
it.
"You look different," Percy told the god. "Skinnier. Your hair is longer. And
your shirt isn't so loud."
The wine god squinted up at him. "What in blazes are you talking about?
Who are you, and where is Ceres?"
"Uh_what series?"
"I think he means Ceres," Jason said. "The goddess of agriculture. You'd call
her Demeter." He nodded respectfully to the god. "Lord Bacchus, do you
remember me? I helped you with that missing leopard in Sonoma."
Bacchus scratched his stubbly chin. "Ah_yes. John Green."
"Jason Grace."
"Whatever," the god said. "Did Ceres send you, then?"
"No, Lord Bacchus," Jason said. "Were you expecting to meet her here?"
The god snorted. "Well, I didn't come to Kansas to party, my boy. Ceres
asked me here for a council of war. What with Gaea rising, the crops are
withering. Droughts are spreading. The karpoi are in revolt. Even my grapes
aren't safe. Ceres wanted a united front in the plant war."
"The plant war," Percy said. "You're going to arm all the little grapes with
tiny assault rifles?"
The god narrowed his eyes. "Have we met?"
"At Camp Half-Blood," Percy said, "I know you as Mr. D-Dionysus."

"Agh!" Bacchus winced and pressed his hands to his temples. For a moment,
his image flickered. Piper saw a different person-fatter, dumpier, in a much
louder, leopard-patterned shirt. Then Bacchus returned to being Bacchus. "Stop
that!" he demanded. "Stop thinking about me in Greek!"
Percy blinked. "Uh, but-"
"Do you have any idea how hard it is to stay focused? Splitting headaches all
the time! I never know what I'm doing or where I'm going! Constantly
grumpy!"
"That sounds pretty normal for you," Percy said.
The god's nostrils flared. One of the grape leaves on his hat burst into flame.
"If we know each other from that other camp, it's a wonder I haven't already
turned you into a dolphin."
"It was discussed," Percy assured him. "I think you were just too lazy to do
it."
Piper had been watching with horrified fascination, the way she might watch
a car wreck in progress. Now she realized Percy was not making things better,
and Annabeth wasn't around to rein him in. Piper figured her friend would never
forgive her if she brought Percy back transformed into a sea mammal.
"Lord Bacchus!" she interrupted, slipping off Tempest's back.
"Piper, careful," Jason said.
She shot him a warning glance: I've got this.
"Sorry to trouble you, my lord," she told the god, "but actually we came here
to get your advice. Please, we need your wisdom."
She used her most agreeable tone, pouring respect into her charmspeak.
The god frowned, but the purple glow faded in his eyes. "You're wellspoken, girl. Advice, eh? Very well. I would avoid karaoke. Really, theme
parties in general are out. In these austere times, people are looking for a simple,
low-key affair, with locally produced organic snacks and-"
"Not about parties," Piper interrupted. "Although that's incredibly useful
advice, Lord Bacchus. We were hoping you'd help us on our quest."
She explained about the Argo II and their voyage to stop the giants from
awakening Gaea. She told him what Nemesis had said: that in six days, Rome

would be destroyed. She described the vision reflected in her knife, where
Bacchus offered her a silver goblet.
"Silver goblet?" The god didn't sound very excited. He grabbed a Diet Pepsi
from nowhere and popped the top of the can.
"You drink Diet Coke," Percy said.
"I don't know what you're talking about," Bacchus snapped. "As to this
vision of the goblet, young lady, I have nothing for you to drink unless you want
a Pepsi. Jupiter has put me under strict orders to avoid giving wine to minors.
Bothersome, but there you have it. As for the giants, I know them well. I fought
in the first Giant War, you know."
"You can fight?" Percy asked.
Piper wished he hadn't sounded so incredulous.
Dionysus snarled. His Diet Pepsi transformed into a five-foot staff wreathed
in ivy, topped with a pinecone.
"A thyrsus!" Piper said, hoping to distract the god before he whacked Percy
on the head. She'd seen weapons like that before in the hands of crazy nymphs,
and wasn't thrilled to see one again, but she tried to sound impressed. "Oh, what
a mighty weapon!"
"Indeed," Bacchus agreed. "I'm glad someone in your group is smart. The
pinecone is a fearsome tool of destruction! I was a demigod myself in the first
Giant War, you know. The son of Jupiter!"
Jason flinched. Probably he wasn't thrilled to be reminded that the Wine
Dude was technically his big brother.
Bacchus swung his staff through the air, though his potbelly almost threw
him off balance. "Of course that was long before I invented wine and became an
immortal. I fought side by side with the gods and some other demigod_Harry
Cleese, I think."
"Heracles?" Piper suggested politely.
"Whatever," Bacchus said. "Anyway, I killed the giant Ephialtes and his
brother Otis. Horrible boors, those two. Pinecone in the face for both of them!"
Piper held her breath. All at once, several ideas came together in her head-
the visions in the knife, the lines of the prophecy they'd been discussing the

night before. She felt like she used to when she was scuba diving with her father,
and he would wipe her mask for her underwater. Suddenly, everything was
clearer.
"Lord Bacchus," she said, trying to control the nervousness in her voice.
"Those two giants, Ephialtes and Otis_would they happen to be twins?"
"Hmm?" The god seemed distracted by his thyrsus-swinging, but he nodded.
"Yes, twins. That's right."
Piper turned to Jason. She could tell he was following her thoughts: Twins
snuff out the angel's breath.
In the blade of Katoptris, she'd seen two giants in yellow robes, lifting a jar
from a deep pit.
"That's why we're here," Piper told the god. "You're part of our quest!"
Bacchus frowned. "I'm sorry, my girl. I'm not a demigod anymore. I don't do
quests."
"But giants can only be killed by heroes and gods working together," she
insisted. "You're a god now, and the two giants we have to fight are Ephialtes
and Otis. I think_I think they're waiting for us in Rome. They're going to
destroy the city somehow. The silver goblet I saw in my vision-maybe it's
meant as a symbol for your help. You have to help us kill the giants!"
Bacchus glared at her, and Piper realized she'd chosen her words poorly.
"My girl," he said coldly, "I don't have to do anything. Besides, I only help
those who give me proper tribute, which no one has managed to do in many,
many centuries."
Blackjack whinnied uneasily.
Piper couldn't blame him. She didn't like the sound of tribute. She
remembered the maenads, the crazed followers of Bacchus, who would tear up
nonbelievers with their bare hands. And that was when they were in a good
mood.
Percy voiced the question that she was too scared to ask. "What kind of
tribute?"
Bacchus waved his hand dismissively. "Nothing you could handle, insolent
Greek. But I will give you some free advice, since this girl does have some

manners. Seek out Gaea's son, Phorcys. He always hated his mother, not that I
can blame him. He didn't have much use for his siblings the twins, either. You'll
find him in the city they named after that heroine-Atalanta."
Piper hesitated. "You mean Atlanta?"
"That's the one."
"But this Phorcys," Jason said. "Is he a giant? A Titan?"
Bacchus laughed. "Neither. Seek out the salt water."
"Salt water_" Percy said. "In Atlanta?"
"Yes," Bacchus said. "Are you hard of hearing? If anyone can give you
insight on Gaea and the twins, it's Phorcys. Just watch out for him."
"What do you mean?" Jason asked.
The god glanced at the sun, which had climbed almost to high noon. "It's
unlike Ceres to be late, unless she sensed something dangerous in this area.
Or_"
The god's face suddenly went slack. "Or a trap. Well, I must be going! And if
I were you, I'd do the same!"
"Lord Bacchus, wait!" Jason protested.
The god shimmered and disappeared with a sound like a soda-can top being
popped.
The wind rustled through the sunflowers. The horses paced in agitation.
Despite the dry, hot day, Piper shivered. A cold feeling_Annabeth and Leo had
both described a cold feeling._
"Bacchus is right," she said. "We need to leave-"
Too late, said a sleepy voice, humming through the fields all around them and
resonating in the ground at Piper's feet.
Percy and Jason drew their swords. Piper stood on the road between them,
frozen with fear. The power of Gaea was suddenly everywhere. The sunflowers
turned to look at them. The wheat bent toward them like a million scythes.
Welcome to my party, Gaea murmured. Her voice reminded Piper of corn
growing-a crackling, hissing, hot and persistent noise she used to hear at
Grandpa Tom's on those quiet nights in Oklahoma.
What did Bacchus say? the goddess mocked. A simple, low-key affair with

organic snacks? Yes. For my snacks, I need only two: the blood of a female
demigod, and the blood of a male. Piper, my dear, choose which hero will die
with you.
"Gaea!" Jason yelled. "Stop hiding in the wheat. Show yourself!"
Such bravado, Gaea hissed. But the other one, Percy Jackson, also has
appeal. Choose, Piper McLean, or I will.
Piper's heart raced. Gaea meant to kill her. That was no surprise. But what
was this about choosing one of the boys? Why would Gaea let either of them go?
It had to be a trap.
"You're insane!" she shouted. "I'm not choosing anything for you!"
Suddenly Jason gasped. He sat up straight in his saddle.
"Jason!" Piper cried. "What's wrong-?"
He looked down at her, his expression deadly calm. His eyes were no longer
blue. They glowed solid gold.
"Percy, help!" Piper stumbled back from Tempest.
But Percy galloped away from them. He stopped thirty feet down the road
and wheeled his pegasus around. He raised his sword and pointed the tip toward
Jason.
"One will die," Percy said, but the voice wasn't his. It was deep and hollow,
like someone whispering from inside the barrel of a cannon.
"I will choose," Jason answered, in the same hollow voice.
"No!" Piper yelled.
All around her, the fields crackled and hissed, laughing in Gaea's voice as
Percy and Jason charged at each other, their weapons ready.

IF NOT FOR THE HORSES, PIPER WOULD'VE DIED.
Jason and Percy charged each other, but Tempest and Blackjack balked long
enough for Piper to leap out of the way.
She rolled to the edge of the road and looked back, dazed and horrified, as the
boys crossed swords, gold against bronze. Sparks flew. Their blades blurred-
strike and parry-and the pavement trembled. The first exchange took only a
second, but Piper couldn't believe the speed of their sword fighting. The horses
pulled away from each other-Tempest thundering in protest, Blackjack
flapping his wings.
"Stop it!" Piper yelled.
For a moment, Jason heeded her voice. His golden eyes turned toward her,
and Percy charged, slamming his blade into Jason. Thank the gods, Percy turned
his sword-maybe on purpose, maybe accidentally-so the flat of it hit Jason's
chest; but the impact was still enough to knock Jason off his mount.
Blackjack cantered away as Tempest reared in confusion. The spirit horse
charged into the sunflowers and dissipated into vapor.
Percy struggled to turn his pegasus around.
"Percy!" Piper yelled. "Jason's your friend. Drop your weapon!"

Percy's sword arm dipped. Piper might have been able to bring him under
control, but unfortunately Jason got to his feet.
Jason roared. A bolt of lightning arced out of the clear blue sky. It ricocheted
off his gladius and blasted Percy off his horse.
Blackjack whinnied and fled into the wheat fields. Jason charged at Percy,
who was now on his back, his clothes smoking from the lightning blast.
For a horrible moment, Piper couldn't find her voice. Gaea seemed to be
whispering to her: You must choose one. Why not let Jason kill him?
"No!" she screamed. "Jason, stop!"
He froze, his sword six inches from Percy's face.
Jason turned, the gold light in his eyes flickering uncertainly. "I cannot stop.
One must die."
Something about that voice_it wasn't Gaea. It wasn't Jason. Whoever it was
spoke haltingly, as if English was its second language.
"Who are you?" Piper demanded.
Jason's mouth twisted in a gruesome smile. "We are the eidolons. We will
live again."
"Eidolons_ ?" Piper's mind raced. She'd studied all sorts of monsters at
Camp Half-Blood, but that term wasn't familiar. "You're-you're some sort of
ghost?"
"He must die." Jason turned his attention back to Percy, but Percy had
recovered more than either of them realized. He swept out his leg and knocked
Jason off his feet.
Jason's head hit the asphalt with a nauseating conk.
Percy rose.
"Stop it!" Piper screamed again, but there was no charmspeak in her voice.
She was shouting in sheer desperation.
Percy raised Riptide over Jason's chest.
Panic closed up Piper's throat. She wanted to attack Percy with her dagger,
but she knew that wouldn't help. Whatever was controlling him had all of
Percy's skill. There was no way she could beat him in combat.
She forced herself to focus. She poured all of her anger into her voice.

"Eidolon, stop."
Percy froze.
"Face me," Piper ordered.
The son of the sea god turned. His eyes were gold instead of green, his face
pale and cruel, not at all like Percy's.
"You have not chosen," he said. "So this one will die."
"You're a spirit from the Underworld," Piper guessed. "You're possessing
Percy Jackson. Is that it?"
Percy sneered. "I will live again in this body. The Earth Mother has
promised. I will go where I please, control whom I wish."
A wave of cold washed over Piper. "Leo_that's what happened to Leo. He
was being controlled by an eidolon."
The thing in Percy's form laughed without humor. "Too late you realize. You
can trust no one."
Jason still wasn't moving. Piper had no help, no way to protect him.
Behind Percy, something rustled in the wheat. Piper saw the tip of a black
wing, and Percy began to turn toward the sound.
"Ignore it!" she yelped. "Look at me."
Percy obeyed. "You cannot stop me. I will kill Jason Grace."
Behind him, Blackjack emerged from the wheat field, moving with surprising
stealth for such a large animal.
"You won't kill him," Piper ordered. But she wasn't looking at Percy. She
locked eyes with the pegasus, pouring all her power into her words and hoping
Blackjack would understand. "You will knock him out."
The charmspeak washed over Percy. He shifted his weight indecisively. "I_
will knock him out?"
"Oh, sorry." Piper smiled. "I wasn't talking to you."
Blackjack reared and brought his hoof down on Percy's head.
Percy crumpled to the pavement next to Jason.
"Oh, gods!" Piper ran to the boys. "Blackjack, you didn't kill him, did you?"
The pegasus snorted. Piper couldn't speak Horse, but she thought he might
have said: Please. I know my own strength.

Tempest was nowhere to be seen. The lightning steed had apparently returned
to wherever storm spirits live on clear days.
Piper checked on Jason. He was breathing steadily, but two knocks on the
skull in two days couldn't have been good for him. Then she examined Percy's
head. She didn't see any blood, but a large knot was forming where the horse
had kicked him. "We have to get them both back to the ship," she told
Blackjack.
The pegasus bobbed his head in agreement. He knelt to the ground, so that
Piper could drape Percy and Jason over his back. After a lot of hard work
(unconscious boys were heavy), she got them reasonably secured, climbed onto
Blackjack's back herself, and they took off for the ship.
The others were a little surprised when Piper came back on a pegasus with two
unconscious demigods. While Frank and Hazel tended to Blackjack, Annabeth
and Leo helped get Piper and the boys to the sickbay.
"At this rate, we're going to run out of ambrosia," Coach Hedge grumbled as
he tended their wounds. "How come I never get invited on these violent trips?"
Piper sat at Jason's side. She herself felt fine after a swig of nectar and some
water, but she was still worried about the boys.
"Leo," Piper said, "are we ready to sail?"
"Yeah, but-"
"Set course for Atlanta. I'll explain later."
"But_okay." He hurried off.
Annabeth didn't argue with Piper either. She was too busy examining the
horseshoe-shaped dent on the back of Percy's head.
"What hit him?" she demanded.
"Blackjack," Piper said.
"What?"
Piper tried to explain while Coach Hedge applied some healing paste to the
boys' heads. She'd never been impressed with Hedge's nursing abilities before,
but he must have done something right. Either that, or the spirits that possessed
the boys had also made them extra resilient. They both groaned and opened their

eyes.
Within a few minutes, Jason and Percy were sitting up in their berths and able
to talk in complete sentences. Both had fuzzy memories of what had happened.
When Piper described their duel on the highway, Jason winced.
"Knocked out twice in two days," he muttered. "Some demigod." He glanced
sheepishly at Percy. "Sorry, man. I didn't mean to blast you."
Percy's shirt was peppered with burn holes. His hair was even more
disheveled than normal. Despite that, he managed a weak laugh. "Not the first
time. Your big sister got me good once at camp."
"Yeah, but_I could have killed you."
"Or I could have killed you," Percy said.
Jason shrugged. "If there'd been an ocean in Kansas, maybe."
"I don't need an ocean-"
"Boys," Annabeth interrupted, "I'm sure you both would've been wonderful
at killing each other. But right now, you need some rest."
"Food first," Percy said. "Please? And we really need to talk. Bacchus said
some things that don't-"
"Bacchus?" Annabeth raised her hand. "Okay, fine. We need to talk. Mess
hall. Ten minutes. I'll tell the others. And please, Percy_change your clothes.
You smell like you've been run over by an electric horse."
Leo gave the helm to Coach Hedge again, after making the satyr promise he
would not steer them to the nearest military base "for fun."
They gathered around the dining table, and Piper explained what had
happened at TOPEKA 32-their conversation with Bacchus, the trap sprung by
Gaea, the eidolons that had possessed the boys.
"Of course!" Hazel slapped the table, which startled Frank so much, he
dropped his burrito. "That's what happened to Leo too."
"So it wasn't my fault." Leo exhaled. "I didn't start World War Three. I just
got possessed by an evil spirit. That's a relief!"
"But the Romans don't know that," Annabeth said. "And why would they
take our word for it?"

"We could contact Reyna," Jason suggested. "She would believe us."
Hearing the way Jason said her name, like it was a lifeline to his past, made
Piper's heart sink.
Jason turned to her with a hopeful gleam in his eyes. "You could convince
her, Pipes. I know you could."
Piper felt like all the blood in her body was draining into her feet. Annabeth
looked at her sympathetically, as if to say: Boys are so clueless. Even Hazel
winced.
"I could try," she said halfheartedly. "But Octavian is the one we have to
worry about. In my dagger blade, I saw him taking control of the Roman crowd.
I'm not sure Reyna can stop him."
Jason's expression darkened. Piper didn't get any pleasure from bursting his
bubble, but the other Romans-Hazel and Frank-nodded in agreement.
"She's right," Frank said. "This afternoon when we were scouting, we saw
eagles again. They were a long way off, but closing fast. Octavian is on the
warpath."
Hazel grimaced. "This is exactly the sort of opportunity Octavian has always
wanted. He'll try to seize power. If Reyna objects, he'll say she's soft on the
Greeks. As for those eagles_It's like they could smell us."
"They can," Jason said. "Roman eagles can hunt demigods by their magical
scent even better than monsters can. This ship might conceal us somewhat, but
not completely-not from them."
Leo drummed his fingers. "Great. I should have installed a smoke screen that
makes the ship smell like a giant chicken nugget. Remind me to invent that, next
time."
Hazel frowned. "What is a chicken nugget?"
"Oh, man_" Leo shook his head in amazement. "That's right. You've
missed the last like, seventy years. Well, my apprentice, a chicken nugget-"
"Doesn't matter," Annabeth interrupted. "The point is, we'll have a hard time
explaining the truth to the Romans. Even if they believe us-"
"You're right." Jason leaned forward. "We should just keep going. Once
we're over the Atlantic, we'll be safe-at least from the legion."

He sounded so depressed, Piper didn't know whether to feel sorry for him or
resentful. "How can you be sure?" she asked. "Why wouldn't they follow us?"
He shook his head. "You heard Reyna talking about the ancient lands.
They're much too dangerous. Roman demigods have been forbidden to go there
for generations. Even Octavian couldn't get around that rule."
Frank swallowed a bite of burrito like it had turned to cardboard in his mouth.
"So, if we go there_"
"We'll be outlaws as well as traitors," Jason confirmed. "Any Roman
demigod would have the right to kill us on sight. But I wouldn't worry about
that. If we get across the Atlantic, they'll give up on chasing us. They'll assume
that we'll die in the Mediterranean-the Mare Nostrum."
Percy pointed his pizza slice at Jason. "You, sir, are a ray of sunshine."
Jason didn't argue. The other demigods stared at their plates, except for
Percy, who continued to enjoy his pizza. Where he put all that food, Piper didn't
know. The guy could eat like a satyr.
"So let's plan ahead," Percy suggested, "and make sure we don't die. Mr. D
-Bacchus- Ugh, do I have to call him Mr. B now? Anyway, he mentioned the
twins in Ella's prophecy. Two giants. Otis and, uh, something that started with
an F?"
"Ephialtes," Jason said.
"Twin giants, like Piper saw in her blade_" Annabeth ran her finger along
the rim of her cup. "I remember a story about twin giants. They tried to reach
Mount Olympus by piling up a bunch of mountains."
Frank nearly choked. "Well, that's great. Giants who can use mountains like
building blocks. And you say Bacchus killed these guys with a pinecone on a
stick?"
"Something like that," Percy said. "I don't think we should count on his help
this time. He wanted a tribute, and he made it pretty clear it would be a tribute
we couldn't handle."
Silence fell around the table. Piper could hear Coach Hedge above deck
singing "Blow the Man Down," except he didn't know the lyrics, so he mostly
sang, "Blah-blah-hum-de-dum-dum."

Piper couldn't shake the feeling that Bacchus was meant to help them. The
giant twins were in Rome. They were keeping something the demigods needed
-something in that bronze jar. Whatever it was, she got the feeling it held the
answer to sealing the Doors of Death-the key to endless death. She also felt
sure they could never defeat the giants without Bacchus's help. And if they
couldn't do that in five days, Rome would be destroyed, and Hazel's brother,
Nico, would die.
On the other hand, if the vision of Bacchus offering her a silver goblet was
false, maybe the other visions didn't have to come true either-especially the
one of her, Percy, and Jason drowning. Maybe that was just symbolic.
The blood of a female demigod, Gaea had said, and the blood of a male.
Piper, my dear, choose which hero will die with you.
"She wants two of us," Piper murmured.
Everyone turned to look at her.
Piper hated being the center of attention. Maybe that was strange for a child
of Aphrodite, but she'd watched her dad, the movie star, deal with fame for
years. She remembered when Aphrodite had claimed her at the bonfire in front
of the entire camp, zapping her with a magic beauty-queen makeover. That had
been the most embarrassing moment of her life. Even here, with only six other
demigods, Piper felt exposed.
They're my friends, she told herself. It's okay.
But she had a strange feeling_as if more than six sets of eyes were watching
her.
"Today on the highway," she said, "Gaea told me that she needed the blood
of only two demigods-one female, one male. She-she asked me to choose
which boy would die."
Jason squeezed her hand. "But neither of us died. You saved us."
"I know. It's just_Why would she want that?"
Leo whistled softly. "Guys, remember at the Wolf House? Our favorite ice
princess, Khione? She talked about spilling Jason's blood, how it would taint the
place for generations. Maybe demigod blood has some kind of power."
"Oh_" Percy set down his third pizza slice. He leaned back and stared at

nothing, as if the horse kick to his head had just now registered.
"Percy?" Annabeth gripped his arm.
"Oh, bad," he muttered. "Bad. Bad." He looked across the table at Frank and
Hazel. "You guys remember Polybotes?"
"The giant who invaded Camp Jupiter," Hazel said. "The anti-Poseidon you
whacked in the head with a Terminus statue. Yes, I think I remember."
"I had a dream," Percy said, "when we were flying to Alaska. Polybotes was
talking to the gorgons, and he said-he said he wanted me taken prisoner, not
killed. He said: 'I want that one chained at my feet, so I can kill him when the
time is ripe. His blood shall water the stones of Mount Olympus and wake Earth
Mother!'"
Piper wondered if the room's temperature controls were broken, because
suddenly she couldn't stop shaking. It was the same way she'd felt on the
highway outside Topeka. "You think the giants would use our blood_the blood
of two of us-"
"I don't know," Percy said. "But until we figure it out, I suggest we all try to
avoid getting captured."
Jason grunted. "That I agree with."
"But how do we figure it out?" Hazel asked. "The Mark of Athena, the twins,
Ella's prophecy_how does it all fit together?"
Annabeth pressed her hands against the edge of the table. "Piper, you told
Leo to set our course for Atlanta."
"Right," Piper said. "Bacchus told us we should seek out_what was his
name?"
"Phorcys," Percy said.
Annabeth looked surprised, like she wasn't used to her boyfriend having the
answers. "You know him?"
Percy shrugged. "I didn't recognize the name at first. Then Bacchus
mentioned salt water, and it rang a bell. Phorcys is an old sea god from before
my dad's time. Never met him, but supposedly he's a son of Gaea. I still don't
understand what a sea god would be doing in Atlanta."
Leo snorted. "What's a wine god doing in Kansas? Gods are weird. Anyway,

we should reach Atlanta by noon tomorrow, unless something else goes wrong."
"Don't even say that," Annabeth muttered. "It's getting late. We should all
get some sleep."
"Wait," Piper said.
Once more, everyone looked at her.
She was rapidly losing her courage, wondering if her instincts were wrong,
but she forced herself to speak.
"There's one last thing," she said. "The eidolons-the possessing spirits.
They're still here, in this room."

PIPER COULDN'T EXPLAIN HOW SHE KNEW.
Stories of phantoms and tortured souls had always freaked her out. Her dad
used to joke about Grandpa Tom's Cherokee legends from back on the rez, but
even at home in their big Malibu mansion, looking out over the Pacific,
whenever her dad recounted the ghost stories for her, she could never get them
out of her head.
Cherokee spirits were always restless. They often lost their way to the Land
of the Dead, or stayed behind with the living out of sheer stubbornness.
Sometimes they didn't even realize they were dead.
The more Piper learned about being a demigod, the more convinced she was
that Cherokee legends and Greek myths weren't so different. These eidolons
acted a lot like the spirits in her dad's stories.
Piper had a gut sense they were still present, simply because no one had told
them to go away.
When she was done explaining, the others looked at her uncomfortably. Up
on deck, Hedge sang something that sounded like "In the Navy" while Blackjack
stomped his hooves, whinnying in protest.
Finally Hazel exhaled. "Piper is right."

"How can you be sure?" Annabeth asked.
"I've met eidolons," Hazel said. "In the Underworld, when I was_you
know."
Dead.
Piper had forgotten that Hazel was a second-timer. In her own way, Hazel too
was a ghost reborn.
"So_" Frank rubbed his hand across his buzz-cut hair as if some ghosts
might have invaded his scalp. "You think these things are lurking on the ship, or
-"
"Possibly lurking inside some of us," Piper said. "We don't know."
Jason clenched his fist. "If that's true-"
"We have to take steps," Piper said. "I think I can do this."
"Do what?" Percy asked.
"Just listen, okay?" Piper took a deep breath. "Everybody listen."
Piper met their eyes, one person at a time.
"Eidolons," she said, using her charmspeak, "raise your hands."
There was tense silence.
Leo laughed nervously. "Did you really think that was going to-?"
His voice died. His face went slack. He raised his hand.
Jason and Percy did the same. Their eyes had turned glassy and gold. Hazel
caught her breath. Next to Leo, Frank scrambled out of his chair and put his back
against the wall.
"Oh, gods." Annabeth looked at Piper imploringly. "Can you cure them?"
Piper wanted to whimper and hide under the table, but she had to help Jason.
She couldn't believe she'd held hands with_No, she refused to think about it.
She focused on Leo because he was the least intimidating.
"Are there more of you on this ship?" she asked.
"No," Leo said in a hollow voice. "The Earth Mother sent three. The
strongest, the best. We will live again."
"Not here, you won't," Piper growled. "All three of you, listen carefully."
Jason and Percy turned toward her. Those gold eyes were unnerving, but
seeing all three boys like that fueled Piper's anger.

"You will leave those bodies," she commanded.
"No," Percy said.
Leo let out a soft hiss. "We must live."
Frank fumbled for his bow. "Mars Almighty, that's creepy! Get out of here,
spirits! Leave our friends alone!"
Leo turned toward him. "You cannot command us, child of war. Your own
life is fragile. Your soul could burn at any moment."
Piper wasn't sure what that meant, but Frank staggered like he'd been
punched in the gut. He drew an arrow, his hands shaking. "I-I've faced down
worse things than you. If you want a fight-"
"Frank, don't." Hazel rose.
Next to her, Jason drew his sword.
"Stop!" Piper ordered, but her voice quavered. She was rapidly losing faith in
her plan. She'd made the eidolons appear, but what now? If she couldn't
persuade them to leave, any bloodshed would be her fault. In the back of her
mind, she could almost hear Gaea laughing.
"Listen to Piper." Hazel pointed at Jason's sword. The gold blade seemed to
grow heavy in his hand. It clunked to the table and Jason sank back into his
chair.
Percy growled in a very un-Percy-like way. "Daughter of Pluto, you may
control gems and metals. You do not control the dead."
Annabeth reached toward him as if to restrain him, but Hazel waved her off.
"Listen, eidolons," Hazel said sternly, "you do not belong here. I may not
command you, but Piper does. Obey her."
She turned toward Piper, her expression clear: Try again. You can do this.
Piper mustered all her courage. She looked straight at Jason-straight into the
eyes of the thing that was controlling him. "You will leave those bodies," Piper
repeated, even more forcefully.
Jason's face tightened. His forehead beaded with sweat. "We-we will leave
these bodies."
"You will vow on the River Styx never to return to this ship," Piper
continued, "and never to possess any member of this crew."

Leo and Percy both hissed in protest.
"You will promise on the River Styx," Piper insisted.
A moment of tension-she could feel their wills fighting against hers. Then
all three eidolons spoke in unison: "We promise on the River Styx."
"You are dead," Piper said.
"We are dead," they agreed.
"Now, leave."
All three boys slumped forward. Percy fell face-first into his pizza.
"Percy!" Annabeth grabbed him.
Piper and Hazel caught Jason's arms as he slipped out of his chair.
Leo wasn't so lucky. He fell toward Frank, who made no attempt to intercept
him. Leo hit the floor.
"Ow!" he groaned.
"Are you all right?" Hazel asked.
Leo pulled himself up. He had a piece of spaghetti in the shape of a 3 stuck to
his forehead. "Did it work?"
"It worked," Piper said, feeling pretty sure she was right. "I don't think
they'll be back."
Jason blinked. "Does that mean I can stop getting head injuries now?"
Piper laughed, exhaling all her nervousness. "Come on, Lightning Boy. Let's
get you some fresh air."
Piper and Jason walked back and forth along the deck. Jason was still wobbly, so
Piper encouraged him to wrap his arm around her for support.
Leo stood at the helm, conferring with Festus through the intercom; he knew
from experience to give Jason and Piper some space. Since the satellite TV was
up again, Coach Hedge was in his cabin happily catching up on his mixed
martial arts cage matches. Percy's pegasus Blackjack had flown off somewhere.
The other demigods were settling in for the night.
The Argo II raced east, cruising several hundred feet above the ground.
Below them small towns passed by like lit-up islands in a dark sea of prairie.
Piper remembered last winter, flying Festus the dragon over the city of

Quebec. She had never seen anything so beautiful, or felt so happy to have
Jason's arms around her-but this was even better.
The night was warm. The ship sailed along more smoothly than a dragon.
Best of all, they were flying away from Camp Jupiter as fast as they possibly
could. No matter how dangerous the ancient lands were, Piper couldn't wait to
get there. She hoped Jason was right that the Romans wouldn't follow them
across the Atlantic.
Jason stopped amidships and leaned against the rail. The moonlight turned his
blond hair silver.
"Thanks, Pipes," he said. "You saved me again."
He put his arm around her waist. She thought about the day they'd fallen into
the Grand Canyon-the first time she'd learned that Jason could control the air.
He'd held her so tightly, she could feel his heartbeat. Then they'd stopped falling
and floated in midair. Best. Boyfriend. Ever.
She wanted to kiss him now, but something held her back.
"I don't know if Percy will trust me anymore," she said. "Not after I let his
horse knock him out."
Jason laughed. "Don't worry about that. Percy's a nice guy, but I get the
feeling he needs a knock on the head every once in a while."
"You could have killed him."
Jason's smile faded. "That wasn't me."
"But I almost let you," Piper said. "When Gaea said I had to choose, I
hesitated and_"
She blinked, cursing herself for crying.
"Don't be so hard on yourself," Jason said. "You saved us both."
"But if two of our crew really have to die, a boy and a girl-"
"I don't accept that. We're going to stop Gaea. All seven of us are going to
come back alive. I promise you."
Piper wished that he hadn't promised. The word only reminded her of the
Prophecy of Seven: an oath to keep with a final breath.
Please, she thought, wondering if her mom, the goddess of love, could hear
her. Don't let it be Jason's final breath. If love means anything, don't take him

away.
As soon as she had made the wish, she felt guilty. How could she stand to see
Annabeth in that kind of pain if Percy died? How could she live with herself if
any of the seven demigods died? Already, each of them had endured so much.
Even the two new Roman kids, Hazel and Frank, whom Piper barely knew, felt
like kin. At Camp Jupiter, Percy had recounted their trip to Alaska, which
sounded as harrowing as anything Piper had experienced. And from the way
Hazel and Frank tried to help during the exorcism, she could tell they were
brave, good people.
"The legend that Annabeth mentioned," she said, "about the Mark of
Athena_why didn't you want to talk about it?"
She was afraid Jason might shut her out, but he just lowered his head like
he'd been expecting the question. "Pipes, I don't know what's true and what's
not. That legend_it could be really dangerous."
"For who?"
"All of us," he said grimly. "The story goes that the Romans stole something
important from the Greeks, back in ancient times, when the Romans conquered
the Greeks' cities."
Piper waited, but Jason seemed lost in thought.
"What did they steal?" she asked.
"I don't know," he said. "I'm not sure anyone in the legion has ever known.
But according to the story, this thing was taken away to Rome and hidden there.
The children of Athena, Greek demigods, have hated us ever since. They've
always stirred up their brethren against the Romans. Like I said, I don't know
how much of that is true-"
"But why not just tell Annabeth?" Piper asked. "She's not going to suddenly
hate you."
He seemed to have trouble focusing on her. "I hope not. But the legend says
that the children of Athena have been searching for this thing for millennia.
Every generation, a few are chosen by the goddess to find it. Apparently, they're
led to Rome by some sign_the Mark of Athena."
"If Annabeth is one of those searchers_we should help her."

Jason hesitated. "Maybe. When we get closer to Rome, I'll tell her what little
I know. Honest. But the story, at least the way I heard it-it claims that if the
Greeks ever found what was stolen, they'd never forgive us. They'd destroy the
legion and Rome, once and for all. After what Nemesis told Leo, about Rome's
being destroyed five days from now_"
Piper studied Jason's face. He was, without a doubt, the bravest person she'd
ever known, but she realized he was afraid. This legend-the idea that it might
tear apart their group and level a city-absolutely terrified him.
Piper wondered what could have been stolen from the Greeks that would be
so important. She couldn't imagine anything that would make Annabeth
suddenly turn vengeful.
Then again, Piper couldn't imagine choosing one demigod's life over
another, and today on that deserted road, just for a moment, Gaea had almost
tempted her._
"I'm sorry, by the way," Jason said.
Piper wiped the last tear from her face. "Sorry for what? It was the eidolon
who attacked-"
"Not about that." The little scar on Jason's upper lip seemed to glow white in
the moonlight. She'd always loved that scar. The imperfection made his face
much more interesting.
"I was stupid to ask you to contact Reyna," he said. "I wasn't thinking."
"Oh." Piper looked up at the clouds and wondered if her mother, Aphrodite,
was somehow influencing him. His apology seemed too good to be true.
But don't stop, she thought. "Really, it's okay."
"It's just_I never felt that way toward Reyna," Jason said, "so I didn't think
about its making you uncomfortable. You've got nothing to worry about, Pipes."
"I wanted to hate her," Piper admitted. "I was so afraid you'd go back to
Camp Jupiter."
Jason looked surprised. "That would never happen. Not unless you came with
me. I promise."
Piper held his hand. She managed a smile, but she was thinking: Another
promise. An oath to keep with a final breath.

She tried to put those thoughts out of her mind. She knew she should just
enjoy this quiet moment with Jason. But as she looked over the side of the ship,
she couldn't help remembering how much the prairie at night looked like dark
water-like the drowning room she'd seen in the blade of her knife.

FORGET THE CHICKEN-NUGGET SMOKE SCREEN. Percy wanted Leo to invent an
anti-dream hat.
That night he had horrible nightmares. First he dreamed he was back in
Alaska on the quest for the legion's eagle. He was hiking along a mountain road,
but as soon as he stepped off the shoulder he was swallowed by the bog-
muskeg, Hazel had called it. He found himself choking in mud, unable to move
or see or breathe. For the first time in his life, he understood what it was like to
drown.
It's just a dream, he told himself. I'll wake up.
But that didn't make it any less terrifying.
Percy had never been scared of water. It was his father's element. But since
the muskeg experience, he'd developed a fear of suffocation. He could never
admit this to anyone, but it had even made him nervous about going in the water.
He knew that was silly. He couldn't drown. But he also suspected that if he
didn't control the fear, it might start controlling him.
He thought about his friend Thalia, who was scared of heights even though
she was the daughter of the sky god. Her brother, Jason, could fly by summoning
the winds. Thalia couldn't, maybe because she was too afraid to try. If Percy

started to believe he could drown_
The muskeg pressed against his chest. His lungs wanted to burst.
Stop panicking, he told himself. This isn't real.
Just when he couldn't hold his breath any longer, the dream changed.
He stood in a vast gloomy space like an underground parking garage. Rows
of stone pillars marched off in every direction, holding up the ceiling about
twenty feet above. Freestanding braziers cast a dim red glow over the floor.
Percy couldn't see very far in the shadows, but hanging from the ceiling were
pulley systems, sandbags, and rows of dark theater lights. Piled around the
chamber, wooden crates were labeled PROPS, WEAPONS, and COSTUMES. One read:
ASSORTED ROCKET LAUNCHERS.
Percy heard machinery creaking in the darkness, huge gears turning, and
water rushing through pipes.
Then he saw the giant_or at least Percy guessed that he was a giant.
He was about twelve feet tall-a respectable height for a Cyclops, but only
half as tall as other giants Percy had dealt with. He also looked more human than
a typical giant, without the dragonlike legs of his larger kin. Nevertheless, his
long purple hair was braided in a ponytail of dreadlocks, woven with gold and
silver coins, which struck Percy as a giantish hairstyle. He had a ten-foot spear
strapped to his back-a giantish weapon.
He wore the largest black turtleneck Percy had ever seen, black pants, and
black leather shoes with points so long and curly, they might have been jester
slippers. He paced back and forth in front of a raised platform, examining a
bronze jar about the size of Percy.
"No, no, no," the giant muttered to himself. "Where's the splash? Where's
the value?" He yelled into the darkness, "Otis!"
Percy heard something shuffling in the distance. Another giant appeared out
of the gloom. He wore exactly the same black outfit, right down to the curly
shoes. The only difference between the two giants was that the second one's hair
was green rather than purple.
The first giant cursed. "Otis, why do you do this to me every day? I told you I
was wearing the black turtleneck today. You could wear anything but the black

turtleneck!"
Otis blinked as if he'd just woken up. "I thought you were wearing the yellow
toga today."
"That was yesterday! When you showed up in the yellow toga!"
"Oh. Right. Sorry, Ephie."
His brother snarled. They had to be twins, because their faces were
identically ugly.
"And don't call me Ephie," Ephie demanded. "Call me Ephialtes. That's my
name. Or you can use my stage name: The BIG F!"
Otis grimaced. "I'm still not sure about that stage name."
"Nonsense! It's perfect. Now, how are the preparations coming along?"
"Fine." Otis didn't sound very enthusiastic. "The man-eating tigers, the
spinning blades_But I still think a few ballerinas would be nice."
"No ballerinas!" Ephialtes snapped. "And this thing." He waved at the bronze
jar in disgust. "What does it do? It's not exciting."
"But that's the whole point of the show. He dies unless the others rescue him.
And if they arrive on schedule-"
"Oh, they'd better!" Ephialtes said. "July First, the Kalends of July, sacred to
Juno. That's when Mother wants to destroy those stupid demigods and really rub
it in Juno's face. Besides, I'm not paying overtime for those gladiator ghosts!"
"Well, then, they all die," Otis said, "and we start the destruction of Rome.
Just like Mother wants. It'll be perfect. The crowd will love it. Roman ghosts
adore this sort of thing."
Ephialtes looked unconvinced. "But the jar just stands there. Couldn't we
suspend it above a fire, or dissolve it in a pool of acid or something?"
"We need him alive for a few more days," Otis reminded his brother.
"Otherwise, the seven won't take the bait and rush to save him."
"Hmm. I suppose. I'd still like a little more screaming. This slow death is
boring. Ah, well, what about our talented friend? Is she ready to receive her
visitor?"
Otis made a sour face. "I really don't like talking to her. She makes me
nervous."

"But is she ready?"
"Yes," Otis said reluctantly. "She's been ready for centuries. No one will be
removing that statue."
"Excellent." Ephialtes rubbed his hands together in anticipation. "This is our
big chance, my brother."
"That's what you said about our last stunt," Otis mumbled. "I was hanging in
that block of ice suspended over the River Lethe for six months, and we didn't
even get any media attention."
"This is different!" Ephialtes insisted. "We will set a new standard for
entertainment! If Mother is pleased, we can write our own ticket to fame and
fortune!"
"If you say so," Otis sighed. "Though I still think those ballerina costumes
from Swan Lake would look lovely-"
"No ballet!"
"Sorry."
"Come," Ephialtes said. "Let's examine the tigers. I want to be sure they are
hungry!"
The giants lumbered off into the gloom, and Percy turned toward the jar.
I need to see inside, he thought.
He willed his dream forward, right to the surface of the jar. Then he passed
through.
The air in the jar smelled of stale breath and tarnished metal. The only light
came from the dim purple glow of a dark sword, its Stygian iron blade set
against one side of the container. Huddled next to it was a dejected-looking boy
in tattered jeans, a black shirt, and an old aviator jacket. On his right hand, a
silver skull ring glittered.
"Nico," Percy called. But the son of Hades couldn't hear him.
The container was completely sealed. The air was turning poisonous. Nico's
eyes were closed, his breathing shallow. He appeared to be meditating. His face
was pale, and thinner than Percy remembered.
On the inner wall of the jar, it looked as though Nico had scratched three hash
marks with his sword-maybe it had been three days that he'd been imprisoned?

It didn't seem possible he could have survived so long without suffocating.
Even in a dream, Percy was already starting to feel panicky, struggling to get
enough oxygen.
Then he noticed something between Nico's feet-a small collection of
glistening objects no bigger than baby teeth.
Seeds, Percy realized. Pomegranate seeds. Three had been eaten and spit out.
Five were still encased in dark red pulp.
"Nico," Percy said, "where is this place? We'll save you._"
The image faded, and a girl's voice whispered: "Percy."
At first, Percy thought he was still asleep. When he'd lost his memory, he'd
spent weeks dreaming about Annabeth, the only person he remembered from his
past. As his eyes opened and his vision cleared, he realized she was really there.
She was standing by his berth, smiling down at him.
Her blond hair fell across her shoulders. Her storm-gray eyes were bright
with amusement. He remembered his first day at Camp Half-Blood, five years
ago, when he'd woken from a daze and found Annabeth standing over him. She
had said, You drool when you sleep.
She was sentimental that way.
"Wh-what's going on?" he asked. "Are we there?"
"No," she said, her voice low. "It's the middle of the night."
"You mean_" Percy's heart started to race. He realized he was in his
pajamas, in bed. He probably had been drooling, or at least making weird noises
as he dreamed. No doubt he had a severe case of pillow hair and his breath
didn't smell great. "You sneaked into my cabin?"
Annabeth rolled her eyes. "Percy, you'll be seventeen in two months. You
can't seriously be worried about getting into trouble with Coach Hedge."
"Uh, have you seen his baseball bat?"
"Besides, Seaweed Brain, I just thought we could take a walk. We haven't
had any time to be together alone. I want to show you something-my favorite
place aboard the ship."
Percy's pulse was still in overdrive, but it wasn't from fear of getting into
trouble. "Can I, you know, brush my teeth first?"

"You'd better," Annabeth said. "Because I'm not kissing you until you do.
And brush your hair while you're at it."
For a trireme, the ship was huge, but it still felt cozy to Percy-like his dorm
building back at Yancy Academy, or any of the other boarding schools he'd
gotten kicked out of. Annabeth and he crept downstairs to the second deck,
which Percy hadn't explored except for sickbay.
She led him past the engine room, which looked like a very dangerous,
mechanized jungle gym, with pipes and pistons and tubes jutting from a central
bronze sphere. Cables resembling giant metal noodles snaked across the floor
and ran up the walls.
"How does that thing even work?" Percy asked.
"No idea," Annabeth said. "And I'm the only one besides Leo who can
operate it."
"That's reassuring."
"It should be fine. It's only threatened to blow up once."
"You're kidding, I hope."
She smiled. "Come on."
They worked their way past the supply rooms and the armory. Toward the
stern of the ship, they reached a set of wooden double doors that opened into a
large stable. The room smelled of fresh hay and wool blankets. Lining the left
wall were three empty horse stalls like the ones they used for pegasi back at
camp. The right wall had two empty cages big enough for large zoo animals.
In the center of the floor was a twenty-foot-square see-through panel. Far
below, the night landscape whisked by-miles of dark countryside crisscrossed
with illuminated highways like the strands of a web.
"A glass-bottomed boat?" Percy asked.
Annabeth grabbed a blanket from the nearest stable gate and spread it across
part of the glass floor. "Sit with me."
They relaxed on the blanket as if they were having a picnic, and watched the
world go by below.
"Leo built the stables so pegasi could come and go easily," Annabeth said.

"Only he didn't realize that pegasi prefer to roam free, so the stables are always
empty."
Percy wondered where Blackjack was-roaming the skies somewhere,
hopefully following their progress. Percy's head still throbbed from getting
whopped by Blackjack's hoof, but he didn't hold that against the horse.
"What do you mean, come and go easily?" he asked. "Wouldn't a pegasus
have to make it down two flights of stairs?"
Annabeth rapped her knuckles on the glass. "These are bay doors, like on a
bomber."
Percy gulped. "You mean we're sitting on doors? What if they opened?"
"I suppose we'd fall to our deaths. But they won't open. Most likely."
"Great."
Annabeth laughed. "You know why I like it here? It's not just the view. What
does this place remind you of?"
Percy looked around: the cages and stables, the Celestial bronze lamp
hanging from the beam, the smell of hay, and of course Annabeth sitting close to
him, her face ghostly and beautiful in the soft amber light.
"That zoo truck," Percy decided. "The one we took to Las Vegas."
Her smile told him he'd gotten the answer right.
"That was so long ago," Percy said. "We were in bad shape, struggling to get
across the country to find that stupid lightning bolt, trapped in a truck with a
bunch of mistreated animals. How can you be nostalgic for that?"
"Because, Seaweed Brain, it's the first time we really talked, you and me. I
told you about my family, and_" She took out her camp necklace, strung with
her dad's college ring and a colorful clay bead for each year at Camp HalfBlood. Now there was something else on the leather cord: a red coral pendant
Percy had given her when they had started dating. He'd brought it from his
father's palace at the bottom of the sea.
"And," Annabeth continued, "it reminds me how long we've known each
other. We were twelve, Percy. Can you believe that?"
"No," he admitted. "So_you knew you liked me from that moment?"
She smirked. "I hated you at first. You annoyed me. Then I tolerated you for

a few years. Then-"
"Okay, fine."
She leaned over and kissed him: a good, proper kiss without anyone watching
-no Romans anywhere, no screaming satyr chaperones.
She pulled away. "I missed you, Percy."
Percy wanted to tell her the same thing, but it seemed too small a comment.
While he had been on the Roman side, he'd kept himself alive almost solely by
thinking of Annabeth. I missed you didn't really cover that.
He remembered earlier in the night, when Piper had forced the eidolon to
leave his mind. Percy hadn't been aware of its presence until she had used her
charmspeak. After the eidolon was gone, he felt as if a hot spike had been
removed from his forehead. He hadn't realized how much pain he had been in
until the spirit left. Then his thoughts became clearer. His soul settled
comfortably back into his body.
Sitting here with Annabeth made him feel the same way. The past few
months could have been one of his strange dreams. The events at Camp Jupiter
seemed as fuzzy and unreal as that fight with Jason, when they had both been
controlled by the eidolons.
Yet he didn't regret the time he'd spent at Camp Jupiter. It had opened his
eyes in a lot of ways.
"Annabeth," he said hesitantly, "in New Rome, demigods can live their
whole lives in peace."
Her expression turned guarded. "Reyna explained it to me. But, Percy, you
belong at Camp Half-Blood. That other life-"
"I know," Percy said. "But while I was there, I saw so many demigods living
without fear: kids going to college, couples getting married and raising families.
There's nothing like that at Camp Half-Blood. I kept thinking about you and
me_and maybe someday when this war with the giants is over_"
It was hard to tell in the golden light, but he thought Annabeth was blushing.
"Oh," she said.
Percy was afraid he'd said too much. Maybe he'd scared her with his big
dreams of the future. She was usually the one with the plans. Percy cursed

himself silently.
As long as he'd known Annabeth, he still felt like he understood so little
about her. Even after they'd been dating several months, their relationship had
always felt new and delicate, like a glass sculpture. He was terrified of doing
something wrong and breaking it.
"I'm sorry," he said. "I just_I had to think of that to keep going. To give me
hope. Forget I mentioned-"
"No!" she said. "No, Percy. Gods, that's so sweet. It's just_we may have
burned that bridge. If we can't repair things with the Romans-well, the two sets
of demigods have never gotten along. That's why the gods kept us separate. I
don't know if we could ever belong there."
Percy didn't want to argue, but he couldn't let go of the hope. It felt important
-not just for Annabeth and him, but for all the other demigods. It had to be
possible to belong in two different worlds at once. After all, that's what being a
demigod was all about-not quite belonging in the mortal world or on Mount
Olympus, but trying to make peace with both sides of their nature.
Unfortunately, that got him thinking about the gods, the war they were facing,
and his dream about the twins Ephialtes and Otis.
"I was having a nightmare when you woke me up," he admitted.
He told Annabeth what he'd seen.
Even the most troubling parts didn't seem to surprise her. She shook her head
sadly when he described Nico's imprisonment in the bronze jar. She got an
angry glint in her eyes when he told her about the giants planning some sort of
Rome-destroying extravaganza that would include their painful deaths as the
opening event.
"Nico is the bait," she murmured. "Gaea's forces must have captured him
somehow. But we don't know exactly where they're holding him."
"Somewhere in Rome," Percy said. "Somewhere underground. They made it
sound like Nico still had a few days to live, but I don't see how he could hold
out so long with no oxygen."
"Five more days, according to Nemesis," Annabeth said. "The Kalends of
July. At least the deadline makes sense now."

"What's a Kalends?"
Annabeth smirked, like she was pleased they were back in their old familiar
pattern-Percy being ignorant, she herself explaining stuff. "It's just the Roman
term for the first of the month. That's where we get the word calendar. But how
can Nico survive that long? We should talk to Hazel."
"Now?"
She hesitated. "No. It can wait until morning. I don't want to hit her with this
news in the middle of the night."
"The giants mentioned a statue," Percy recalled. "And something about a
talented friend who was guarding it. Whoever this friend was, she scared Otis.
Anyone who can scare a giant_"
Annabeth gazed down at a highway snaking through dark hills. "Percy, have
you seen Poseidon lately? Or had any kind of sign from him?"
He shook his head. "Not since_Wow. I guess I haven't thought about it. Not
since the end of the Titan War. I saw him at Camp Half-Blood, but that was last
August." A sense of dread settled over him. "Why? Have you seen Athena?"
She didn't meet his eyes.
"A few weeks ago," she admitted. "It_it wasn't good. She didn't seem like
herself. Maybe it's the Greek/Roman schizophrenia that Nemesis described. I'm
not sure. She said some hurtful things. She said I had failed her."
"Failed her?" Percy wasn't sure he'd heard her right. Annabeth was the
perfect demigod child. She was everything a daughter of Athena should be.
"How could you ever-?"
"I don't know," she said miserably. "On top of that, I've been having
nightmares of my own. They don't make as much sense as yours."
Percy waited, but Annabeth didn't share any more details. He wanted to make
her feel better and tell her it would be okay, but he knew he couldn't. He wanted
to fix everything for both of them so they could have a happy ending. After all
these years, even the cruelest gods would have to admit they deserved it.
But he had a gut feeling that there was nothing he could do to help Annabeth
this time, other than simply be there. Wisdom's daughter walks alone.
He felt as trapped and helpless as when he'd sunk into the muskeg.

Annabeth managed a faint smile. "Some romantic evening, huh? No more
bad things until the morning." She kissed him again. "We'll figure everything
out. I've got you back. For now, that's all that matters."
"Right," Percy said. "No more talk about Gaea rising, Nico being held
hostage, the world ending, the giants-"
"Shut up, Seaweed Brain," she ordered. "Just hold me for a while."
They sat together cuddling, enjoying each other's warmth. Before Percy
knew it, the drone of the ship's engine, the dim light, and the comfortable feeling
of being with Annabeth made his eyes heavy, and he drifted to sleep.
When he woke, daylight was coming through the glass floor, and a boy's
voice said, "Oh_You are in so much trouble."

PERCY HAD SEEN FRANK SURROUNDED by cannibal ogres, facing down an
unkillable giant, and even unleashing Thanatos, the god of death. But he'd never
seen Frank look as terrified as he did now, finding the two of them passed out in
the stables.
"What_ ?" Percy rubbed his eyes. "Oh, we just fell asleep."
Frank swallowed. He was dressed in running shoes, dark cargo pants, and a
Vancouver Winter Olympics T-shirt with his Roman centurion badge pinned to
the neck (which seemed either sad or hopeful to Percy, now that they were
renegades). Frank averted his eyes as if the sight of them together might burn
him.
"Everyone thinks you've been kidnapped," he said. "We've been scouring the
ship. When Coach Hedge finds out-oh, gods, you've been here all night?"
"Frank!" Annabeth's ears were as red as strawberries. "We just came down
here to talk. We fell asleep. Accidentally. That's it."
"Kissed a couple of times," Percy said.
Annabeth glared at him. "Not helping!"
"We'd better_" Frank pointed to the stable doors. "Uh, we're supposed to
meet for breakfast. Would you explain what you did-I mean didn't do? I

mean_ I really don't want that faun-I mean satyr-to kill me."
Frank ran.
When everyone finally gathered in the mess hall, it wasn't quite as bad as
Frank had feared. Jason and Piper were mostly relieved. Leo couldn't stop
grinning and muttering, "Classic. Classic." Only Hazel seemed scandalized,
maybe because she was from the 1940s. She kept fanning her face and wouldn't
meet Percy's eyes.
Naturally, Coach Hedge went ballistic; but Percy found it hard to take the
satyr seriously since he was barely five feet tall.
"Never in my life!" Coach bellowed, waving his bat and knocking over a
plate of apples. "Against the rules! Irresponsible!"
"Coach," Annabeth said, "it was an accident. We were talking, and we fell
asleep."
"Besides," Percy said, "you're starting to sound like Terminus."
Hedge narrowed his eyes. "Is that an insult, Jackson? 'Cause I'll-I'll
terminus you, buddy!"
Percy tried not to laugh. "It won't happen again, Coach. I promise. Now,
don't we have other things to discuss?"
Hedge fumed. "Fine! But I'm watching you, Jackson. And you, Annabeth
Chase, I thought you had more sense-"
Jason cleared his throat. "So grab some food, everybody. Let's get started."
The meeting was like a war council with donuts. Then again, back at Camp HalfBlood they used to have their most serious discussions around the Ping-Pong
table in the rec room with crackers and Cheez Whiz, so Percy felt right at home.
He told them about his dream-the twin giants planning a reception for them
in an underground parking lot with rocket launchers; Nico di Angelo trapped in a
bronze jar, slowly dying from asphyxiation with pomegranate seeds at his feet.
Hazel choked back a sob. "Nico_ Oh, gods. The seeds."
"You know what they are?" Annabeth asked.
Hazel nodded. "He showed them to me once. They're from our stepmother's
garden."

"Your step_ oh," Percy said. "You mean Persephone."
Percy had met the wife of Hades once. She hadn't been exactly warm and
sunny. He had also been to her Underworld garden-a creepy place full of
crystal trees and flowers that bloomed bloodred and ghost white.
"The seeds are a last-resort food," Hazel said. Percy could tell she was
nervous, because all the silverware on the table was starting to move toward her.
"Only children of Hades can eat them. Nico always kept some in case he got
stuck somewhere. But if he's really imprisoned-"
"The giants are trying to lure us," Annabeth said. "They're assuming we'll try
to rescue him."
"Well, they're right!" Hazel looked around the table, her confidence
apparently crumbling. "Won't we?"
"Yes!" Coach Hedge yelled with a mouthful of napkins. "It'll involve
fighting, right?"
"Hazel, of course we'll help him," Frank said. "But how long do we have
before_ uh, I mean, how long can Nico hold out?"
"One seed a day," Hazel said miserably. "That's if he puts himself in a death
trance."
"A death trance?" Annabeth scowled. "That doesn't sound fun."
"It keeps him from consuming all his air," Hazel said. "Like hibernation, or a
coma. One seed can sustain him one day, barely."
"And he has five seeds left," Percy said. "That's five days, including today.
The giants must have planned it that way, so we'd have to arrive by July first.
Assuming Nico is hidden somewhere in Rome-"
"That's not much time," Piper summed up. She put her hand on Hazel's
shoulder. "We'll find him. At least we know what the lines of the prophecy
mean now. 'Twins snuff out the angel's breath, who holds the key to endless
death.' Your brother's last name: di Angelo. Angelo is Italian for 'angel.'"
"Oh, gods," Hazel muttered. "Nico_"
Percy stared at his jelly donut. He had a rocky history with Nico di Angelo.
The guy had once tricked him into visiting Hades's palace, and Percy had ended
up in a cell. But most of the time, Nico sided with the good guys. He certainly

didn't deserve slow suffocation in a bronze jar, and Percy couldn't stand seeing
Hazel in pain.
"We'll rescue him," he promised her. "We have to. The prophecy says he
holds the key to endless death."
"That's right," Piper said encouragingly. "Hazel, your brother went searching
for the Doors of Death in the Underworld, right? He must've found them."
"He can tell us where the doors are," Percy said, "and how to close them."
Hazel took a deep breath. "Yes. Good."
"Uh_" Leo shifted in his chair. "One thing. The giants are expecting us to do
this, right? So we're walking into a trap?"
Hazel looked at Leo like he'd made a rude gesture. "We have no choice!"
"Don't get me wrong, Hazel. It's just that your brother, Nico_ he knew
about both camps, right?"
"Well, yes," Hazel said.
"He's been going back and forth," Leo said, "and he didn't tell either side."
Jason sat forward, his expression grim. "You're wondering if we can trust the
guy. So am I."
Hazel shot to her feet. "I don't believe this. He's my brother. He brought me
back from the Underworld, and you don't want to help him?"
Frank put his hand on her shoulder. "Nobody's saying that." He glared at
Leo. "Nobody had better be saying that."
Leo blinked. "Look, guys. All I mean is-"
"Hazel," Jason said. "Leo is raising a fair point. I remember Nico from Camp
Jupiter. Now I find out he also visited Camp Half-Blood. That does strike me
as_ well, a little shady. Do we really know where his loyalties lie? We just have
to be careful."
Hazel's arms shook. A silver platter zoomed toward her and hit the wall to
her left, splattering scrambled eggs. "You_ the great Jason Grace_ the praetor
I looked up to. You were supposed to be so fair, such a good leader. And now
you_" Hazel stomped her foot and stormed out of the mess hall.
"Hazel!" Leo called after her. "Ah, jeez. I should-"
"You've done enough," Frank growled. He got up to follow her, but Piper

gestured for him to wait.
"Give her time," Piper advised. Then she frowned at Leo and Jason. "You
guys, that was pretty cold."
Jason looked shocked. "Cold? I'm just being cautious!"
"Her brother is dying," Piper said.
"I'll go talk to her," Frank insisted.
"No," Piper said. "Let her cool down first. Trust me on this. I'll go check on
her in a few minutes."
"But_" Frank huffed like an irritated bear. "Fine. I'll wait."
From up above came a whirring sound like a large drill.
"That's Festus," Leo said. "I've got him on autopilot, but we must be nearing
Atlanta. I'll have to get up there_ uh, assuming we know where to land."
Everyone turned to Percy.
Jason raised an eyebrow. "You're Captain Salt Water. Any ideas from the
expert?"
Was that resentment in his voice? Percy wondered if Jason was secretly
miffed about the duel in Kansas. Jason had joked about it, but Percy figured that
they both harbored a little grudge. You couldn't put two demigods in a fight and
not have them wonder who was stronger.
"I'm not sure," he admitted. "Somewhere central, high up so we can get a
good view of the city. Maybe a park with some woods? We don't want to land a
warship in the middle of downtown. I doubt even the Mist could cover up
something that huge."
Leo nodded. "On it." He raced for the stairs.
Frank settled back in his chair uneasily. Percy felt bad for him. On the trip to
Alaska, he had watched Hazel and Frank grow close. He knew how protective
Frank felt toward her. He also noticed the baleful look Frank was giving Leo. He
decided it might be a good idea to get Frank off the ship for a while.
"When we land, I'll scout around in Atlanta," Percy said. "Frank, I could use
your help."
"You mean turn into a dragon again? Honestly, Percy, I don't want to spend
the whole quest being everyone's flying taxi."

"No," Percy said. "I want you with me because you've got the blood of
Poseidon. Maybe you can help me figure out where to find salt water. Besides,
you're good in a fight."
That seemed to make Frank feel a little better. "Sure. I guess."
"Great," Percy said. "We should take one more. Annabeth-"
"Oh, no!" Coach Hedge barked. "Young lady, you are grounded."
Annabeth stared at him like he was speaking a foreign language. "Excuse
me?"
"You and Jackson are not going anywhere together!" Hedge insisted. He
glared at Percy, daring him to mouth off. "I'll go with Frank and Mr. Sneaky
Jackson. The rest of you guard the ship and make sure Annabeth doesn't break
any more rules!"
Wonderful, Percy thought. A boys' day out with Frank and a bloodthirsty
satyr, to find salt water in a landlocked city.
"This," he said, "is going to be so much fun."

PERCY CLIMBED OUT ON DECK AND SAID, "WOW."
They had landed near the summit of a forested hill. A complex of white
buildings, like a museum or a university, nestled in a grove of pines to the left.
Below them spread the city of Atlanta-a cluster of brown and silver downtown
skyscrapers two miles away, rising from what looked like an endless flat sprawl
of highways, railroad tracks, houses, and green swathes of forest.
"Ah, lovely spot." Coach Hedge inhaled the morning air. "Good choice,
Valdez."
Leo shrugged. "I just picked a tall hill. That's a presidential library or
something over there. At least that's what Festus says."
"I don't know about that!" Hedge barked. "But do you realize what happened
on this hill? Frank Zhang, you should know!"
Frank flinched. "I should?"
"A son of Ares stood here!" Hedge cried indignantly.
"I'm Roman_so Mars, actually."
"Whatever! Famous spot in the American Civil War!"
"I'm Canadian, actually."
"Whatever! General Sherman, Union leader. He stood on this hill watching

the city of Atlanta burn. Cut a path of destruction all the way from here to the
sea. Burning, looting, pillaging-now there was a demigod!"
Frank inched away from the satyr. "Uh, okay."
Percy didn't care much about history, but he wondered whether landing here
was a bad omen. He'd heard that most human civil wars started as fights
between Greek and Roman demigods. Now they were standing on the site of one
such battle. The entire city below them had been leveled on orders of a child of
Ares.
Percy could imagine some of the kids at Camp Half-Blood giving such a
command. Clarisse La Rue, for instance, wouldn't hesitate. But he couldn't
imagine Frank being so harsh.
"Anyway," Percy said, "let's try not to burn down the city this time."
The coach looked disappointed. "All right. But where to?"
Percy pointed toward downtown. "When in doubt, start in the middle."
Catching a ride there was easier than they thought. The three of them headed to
the presidential library-which turned out to be the Carter Center-and asked
the staff if they could call a taxi or give them directions to the nearest bus stop.
Percy could have summoned Blackjack, but he was reluctant to ask the pegasus
for help so soon after their last disaster. Frank didn't want to polymorph into
anything. And besides, Percy was kind of hoping to travel like a regular mortal
for a change.
One of the librarians, whose name was Esther, insisted on driving them
personally. She was so nice about it, Percy thought she must be a monster in
disguise; but Hedge pulled him aside and assured him that Esther smelled like a
normal human.
"With a hint of potpourri," he said. "Cloves. Rose petals. Tasty!"
They piled into Esther's big black Cadillac and drove toward downtown.
Esther was so tiny, she could barely see over the steering wheel; but that didn't
seem to bother her. She muscled her car through traffic while regaling them with
stories about the crazy families of Atlanta-the old plantation owners, the
founders of Coca-Cola, the sports stars, and the CNN news people. She sounded

so knowledgeable that Percy decided to try his luck.
"Uh, so, Esther," he said, "here's a hard question for you. Salt water in
Atlanta. What's the first thing that comes to mind?"
The old lady chuckled. "Oh, sugar. That's easy. Whale sharks!"
Frank and Percy exchanged looks.
"Whale sharks?" Frank asked nervously. "You have those in Atlanta?"
"At the aquarium, sugar," Esther said. "Very famous! Right downtown. Is
that where you wanted to go?"
An aquarium. Percy considered that. He didn't know what an Ancient Greek
sea god would be doing at a Georgia aquarium, but he didn't have any better
ideas.
"Yes," Percy said. "That's where we're going."
Esther dropped them at the main entrance, where a line was already forming.
She insisted on giving them her cell phone number for emergencies, money for a
taxi ride back to the Carter Center, and a jar of homemade peach preserves,
which for some reason she kept in a box in her trunk. Frank stuck the jar in his
backpack and thanked Esther, who had already switched from calling him sugar
to son.
As she drove away, Frank said, "Are all people in Atlanta that nice?"
Hedge grunted. "Hope not. I can't fight them if they're nice. Let's go beat up
some whale sharks. They sound dangerous!"
It hadn't occurred to Percy that they might have to pay admission, or stand in
line behind a bunch of families and kids from summer camps.
Looking at the elementary schoolers in their colorful T-shirts from various
day camps, Percy felt a twinge of sadness. He should be at Camp Half-Blood
right now, settling into his cabin for the summer, teaching sword-fighting
lessons in the arena, planning pranks on the other counselors. These kids had no
idea just how crazy a summer camp could be.
He sighed. "Well, I guess we wait in line. Anybody have money?"
Frank checked his pockets. "Three denarii from Camp Jupiter. Five dollars
Canadian."
Hedge patted his gym shorts and pulled out what he found. "Three quarters,

two dimes, a rubber band and-score! A piece of celery."
He started munching on the celery, eyeing the change and the rubber band
like they might be next.
"Great," Percy said. His own pockets were empty except for his pen/sword,
Riptide. He was pondering whether or not they could sneak in somehow, when a
woman in a blue-and-green Georgia Aquarium shirt came up to them, smiling
brightly.
"Ah, VIP visitors!" She had perky dimpled cheeks, thick-framed glasses,
braces, and frizzy black hair pulled to the sides in pigtails, so that even though
she was probably in her late twenties, she looked like a schoolgirl nerd-sort of
cute, but sort of odd. Along with her Georgia Aquarium polo shirt, she wore
dark slacks and black sneakers, and she bounced on the balls of her feet like she
simply couldn't contain her energy. Her name tag read KATE.
"You have your payment, I see," she said. "Excellent!"
"What?" Percy asked.
Kate scooped the three denarii out of Frank's hand. "Yes, that's fine. Right
this way!"
She spun and trotted off toward the main entrance.
Percy looked at Coach Hedge and Frank. "A trap?"
"Probably," Frank said.
"She's not mortal," Hedge said, sniffing the air. "Probably some sort of goateating, demigod-destroying fiend from Tartarus."
"No doubt," Percy agreed.
"Awesome." Hedge grinned. "Let's go."
Kate got them past the ticket queue and into the aquarium with no problem.
"Right this way." Kate grinned at Percy. "It's a wonderful exhibit. You won't
be disappointed. So rare we get VIPs."
"Uh, you mean demigods?" Frank asked.
Kate winked at him impishly and put a finger to her mouth. "So over here is
the cold-water experience, with your penguins and beluga whales and whatnot.
And over there_well, those are some fish, obviously."
For an aquarium worker, she didn't seem to know much or care much about

the smaller fish. They passed one huge tank full of tropical species, and when
Frank pointed to a particular fish and asked what it was, Kate said, "Oh, those
are the yellow ones."
They passed the gift shop. Frank slowed down to check out a clearance table
with clothes and toys.
"Take what you want," Kate told him.
Frank blinked. "Really?"
"Of course! You're a VIP!"
Frank hesitated. Then he stuffed some T-shirts in his backpack.
"Dude," Percy said, "what are you doing?"
"She said I could," Frank whispered. "Besides, I need more clothes. I didn't
pack for a long trip!"
He added a snow globe to his stash, which didn't seem like clothing to Percy.
Then Frank picked up a braided cylinder about the size of a candy bar.
He squinted at it. "What is-?"
"Chinese handcuffs," Percy said.
Frank, who was Chinese Canadian, looked offended. "How is this Chinese?"
"I don't know," Percy said. "That's just what it's called. It's like a gag gift."
"Come along, boys!" Kate called from across the hall.
"I'll show you later," Percy promised.
Frank stuffed the handcuffs in his backpack, and they kept walking.
They passed through an acrylic tunnel. Fish swam over their heads, and Percy
felt irrational panic building in his throat.
This is dumb, he told himself. I've been underwater a million times. And I'm
not even in the water.
The real threat was Kate, he reminded himself. Hedge had already detected
that she wasn't human. Any minute she might turn into some horrible creature
and attack them. Unfortunately, Percy didn't see much choice but to play along
with her VIP tour until they could find the sea god Phorcys, even if they were
walking deeper into a trap.
They emerged in a viewing room awash with blue light. On the other side of
a glass wall was the biggest aquarium tank Percy had ever seen. Cruising in

circles were dozens of huge fish, including two spotted sharks, each twice
Percy's size. They were fat and slow, with open mouths and no teeth.
"Whale sharks," Coach Hedge growled. "Now we shall battle to the death!"
Kate giggled. "Silly satyr. Whale sharks are peaceful. They only eat
plankton."
Percy scowled. He wondered how Kate knew the coach was a satyr. Hedge
was wearing pants and specially fitted shoes over his hooves, like satyrs usually
did to blend in with mortals. His baseball cap covered his horns. The more Kate
giggled and acted friendly, the more Percy didn't like her; but Coach Hedge
didn't seem fazed.
"Peaceful sharks?" the coach said with disgust. "What's the point of that?"
Frank read the plaque next to the tank. "The only whale sharks in captivity in
the world," he mused. "That's kind of amazing."
"Yes, and these are small," Kate said. "You should see some of my other
babies out in the wild."
"Your babies?" Frank asked.
Judging from the wicked glint in Kate's eyes, Percy was pretty sure he didn't
want to meet Kate's babies. He decided it was time to get to the point. He didn't
want to go any farther into this aquarium than he had to.
"So, Kate," he said, "we're looking for a guy_I mean a god, named Phorcys.
Would you happen to know him?"
Kate snorted. "Know him? He's my brother. That's where we're going,
sillies. The real exhibits are right through here."
She gestured at the far wall. The solid black surface rippled, and another
tunnel appeared, leading through a luminous purple tank.
Kate strolled inside. The last thing Percy wanted to do was follow, but if
Phorcys was really on the other side, and if he had information that would help
their quest_Percy took a deep breath and followed his friends into the tunnel.
As soon as they entered, Coach Hedge whistled. "Now that's interesting."
Gliding above them were multicolored jellyfish the size of trash cans, each
with hundreds of tentacles that looked like silky barbed wire. One jellyfish had a
paralyzed ten-foot-long swordfish tangled in its grasp. The jellyfish slowly

wrapped its tendrils tighter and tighter around its prey.
Kate beamed at Coach Hedge. "You see? Forget the whale sharks! And
there's much more."
Kate led them into an even larger chamber, lined with more aquariums. On
one wall, a glowing red sign proclaimed: DEATH IN THE DEEP SEAS! Sponsored by
Monster Donut.
Percy had to read the sign twice because of his dyslexia, and then twice more
to let the message sink in. "Monster Donut?"
"Oh, yes," Kate said. "One of our corporate sponsors."
Percy gulped. His last experience with Monster Donut hadn't been pleasant.
It had involved acid-spitting serpent heads, much screaming, and a cannon.
In one aquarium, a dozen hippocampi-horses with the tails of fish-drifted
aimlessly. Percy had seen many hippocampi in the wild. He'd even ridden a few;
but he had never seen any in an aquarium. He tried to speak with them, but they
just floated around, occasionally bonking against the glass. Their minds seemed
addled.
"This isn't right," Percy muttered.
He turned and saw something even worse. At the bottom of a smaller tank,
two Nereids-female sea spirits-sat cross-legged, facing each other, playing a
game of Go Fish. They looked incredibly bored. Their long green hair floated
listlessly around their faces. Their eyes were half closed.
Percy felt so angry, he could hardly breathe. He glared at Kate. "How can you
keep them here?"
"I know." Kate sighed. "They aren't very interesting. We tried to teach them
some tricks, but with no luck, I'm afraid. I think you'll like this tank over here
much better."
Percy started to protest, but Kate had already moved on.
"Holy mother of goats!" cried Coach Hedge. "Look at these beauties!"
He was gawking at two sea serpents-thirty-foot-long monsters with glowing
blue scales and jaws that could have bitten a whale shark in half. In another tank,
peeking out from its cement cave, was a squid the size of an eighteen-wheeler,
with a beak like a giant bolt cutter.

A third tank held a dozen humanoid creatures with sleek seal bodies, doglike
faces, and human hands. They sat on the sand at the bottom of the tank, building
things out of Legos, though the creatures seemed just as dazed as the Nereids.
"Are those-?" Percy struggled to form the question.
"Telkhines?" Kate said. "Yes! The only ones in captivity."
"But they fought for Kronos in the last war!" Percy said. "They're
dangerous!"
Kate rolled her eyes. "Well, we couldn't call it 'Death in the Deep Seas' if
these exhibits weren't dangerous. Don't worry. We keep them well sedated."
"Sedated?" Frank asked. "Is that legal?"
Kate appeared not to have heard. She kept walking, pointing out other
exhibits. Percy looked back at the telkhines. One was obviously a youngster. He
was trying to make a sword out of Legos, but he seemed too groggy to put the
pieces together. Percy had never liked sea demons, but now he felt sorry for
them.
"And these sea monsters," Kate narrated up ahead, "can grow five hundred
feet long in the deep ocean. They have over a thousand teeth. And these? Their
favorite food is demigod-"
"Demigod?" Frank yelped.
"But they will eat whales or small boats, too." Kate turned to Percy and
blushed. "Sorry_I'm such a monster nerd! I'm sure you know all this, being the
son of Poseidon, and all."
Percy's ears were ringing like alarm bells. He didn't like how much Kate
knew about him. He didn't like the way she casually tossed out information
about drugging captive creatures or which of her babies liked to devour
demigods.
"Who are you?" he demanded. "Does Kate stand for something?"
"Kate?" She looked momentarily confused. Then she glanced at her name
tag. "Oh_" She laughed. "No, it's-"
"Hello!" said a new voice, booming through the aquarium.
A small man scuttled out of the darkness. He walked sideways on bowed legs
like a crab, his back hunched, his arms raised on either side like he was holding

invisible plates.
He wore a wet suit that was several horrible shades of green. Glittery silver
words printed down the side read: PORKY'S FOLLIES. A headset microphone was
clamped over his greasy wiry hair. His eyes were milky blue, one higher than the
other, and though he smiled, he didn't look friendly-more like his face was
being peeled back in a wind tunnel.
"Visitors!" the man said, the word thundering through the microphone. He
had a DJ's voice, deep and resonant, which did not at all match his appearance.
"Welcome to Phorcys's Follies!"
He swept his arms in one direction, as if directing their attention to an
explosion. Nothing happened.
"Curse it," the man grumbled. "Telkhines, that's your cue! I wave my hands,
and you leap energetically in your tank, do a synchronized double spin, and land
in pyramid formation. We practiced this!"
The sea demons paid him no attention.
Coach Hedge leaned toward the crab man and sniffed his glittery wet suit.
"Nice outfit."
He didn't sound like he was kidding. Of course, the satyr wore gym uniforms
for fun.
"Thank you!" The man beamed. "I am Phorcys."
Frank shifted his weight from foot to foot. "Why does your suit say Porky?"
Phorcys snarled. "Stupid uniform company! They can't get anything right."
Kate tapped her name tag. "I told them my name was Keto. They misspelled
it as Kate. My brother_well, now he's Porky."
"I am not!" the man snapped. "I'm not even a little porky. The name doesn't
work with Follies, either. What kind of show is called Porky's Follies? But you
folks don't want to hear us complain. Behold, the wondrous majesty of the giant
killer squid!"
He gestured dramatically toward the squid tank. This time, fireworks shot off
in front of the glass right on cue, sending up geysers of golden sparkles. Music
swelled from the loudspeakers. The lights brightened and revealed the wondrous
majesty of an empty tank.

The squid had apparently skulked back into its cave.
"Curse it!" Phorcys yelled again. He wheeled on his sister. "Keto, training the
squid was your job. Juggling, I said. Maybe a bit of flesh-rending for the finale.
Is that too much to ask?"
"He's shy," Keto said defensively. "Besides, each of his tentacles has sixtytwo razorlike barbs that have to be sharpened daily." She turned toward Frank.
"Did you know the monstrous squid is the only beast known to eat demigods
whole, armor and all, without getting indigestion? It's true!"
Frank stumbled away from her, hugging his gut as if making sure he was still
in one piece.
"Keto!" Porky snapped-literally, since he clicked his fingers to his thumbs
like crab claws. "You'll bore our guests with so much information. Less
education, more entertainment! We've discussed this."
"But-"
"No buts! We're here to present 'Death in the Deep Seas!' Sponsored by
Monster Donut!"
The last words reverberated through the room with extra echo. Lights flashed.
Smoke clouds billowed from the floor, making donut-shaped rings that smelled
like real donuts.
"Available at the concession stand," Phorcys advised. "But you've spent your
hard-earned denarii to get the VIP tour, and so you shall! Come with me!"
"Um, hold it," Percy said.
Phorcys's smile melted in an ugly way. "Yes?"
"You're a sea god, aren't you?" Percy asked. "Son of Gaea?"
The crab man sighed. "Five thousand years, and I'm still known as Gaea's
little boy. Never mind that I'm one of the oldest sea gods in existence. Older
than your upstart father, by the way. I'm god of the hidden depths! Lord of
watery terrors! Father of a thousand monsters! But, no_nobody even knows me.
I make one little mistake, supporting the Titans in their war, and I'm exiled from
the ocean-to Atlanta, of all places."
"We thought the Olympians said Atlantis," Keto explained. "Their idea of a
joke, I guess, sending us here instead."

Percy narrowed his eyes. "And you're a goddess?"
"Keto, yes!" She smiled happily. "Goddess of sea monsters, naturally!
Whales, sharks, squids, and other giant sea life, but my heart always belonged to
the monsters. Did you know that young sea serpents can regurgitate the flesh of
their victims and keep themselves fed for up to six years on the same meal? It's
true!"
Frank was still clutching his stomach like he was going to be sick.
Coach Hedge whistled. "Six years? That's fascinating."
"I know!" Keto beamed.
"And how exactly does a killer squid rend the flesh from its victims?" Hedge
asked. "I love nature."
"Oh, well-"
"Stop!" Phorcys demanded. "You're ruining the show! Now, witness our
Nereid gladiators fight to the death!"
A mirrored disco ball descended into the Nereid exhibit, making the water
dance with multicolored light. Two swords fell to the bottom and plunked in the
sand. The Nereids ignored them and kept playing Go Fish.
"Curse it!" Phorcys stomped his legs sideways.
Keto grimaced at Coach Hedge. "Don't mind Porky. He's such a windbag.
Come with me, my fine satyr. I'll show you full-color diagrams of the monsters'
hunting habits."
"Excellent!"
Before Percy could object, Keto led Coach Hedge away through a maze of
aquarium glass, leaving Frank and him alone with the crabby sea god.
A bead of sweat traced its way down Percy's neck. He exchanged a nervous
look with Frank. This felt like a divide-and-conquer strategy. He didn't see any
way the encounter was going to end well. Part of him wanted to attack Phorcys
now-at least that might give them the element of surprise-but they hadn't
found out any useful information yet. Percy wasn't sure he could find Coach
Hedge again. He wasn't even sure he could find the exit.
Phorcys must've read his expression.
"Oh, it's fine!" the god assured him. "Keto might be a little boring, but she'll

take good care of your friend. And honestly, the best part of the tour is still to
come!"
Percy tried to think, but he was starting to get a headache. He wasn't sure if it
was from yesterday's head injury, Phorcys's special effects, or his sister's
lectures on nauseating sea monster facts. "So_" he managed. "Dionysus sent us
here."
"Bacchus," Frank corrected.
"Right." Percy tried to keep his annoyance in check. He could barely
remember one name for each god. Two was pushing it. "The wine god.
Whatever." He looked at Phorcys. "Bacchus said you might know what your
mom Gaea is up to, and these twin giant brothers of yours-Ephialtes and Otis.
And if you happen to know anything about this Mark of Athena-"
"Bacchus thought I would help you?" Phorcys asked.
"Well, yeah," Percy said. "I mean, you're Phorcys. Everybody talks about
you."
Phorcys tilted his head so that his mismatched eyes almost lined up. "They
do?"
"Of course. Don't they, Frank?"
"Oh_sure!" Frank said. "People talk about you all the time."
"What do they say?" the god asked.
Frank looked uncomfortable. "Well, you have great pyrotechnics. And a good
announcer's voice. And, um, a disco ball-"
"It's true!" Phorcys clacked his fingers and thumbs excitedly. "I also have the
largest collection of captive sea monsters in the world!"
"And you know stuff," Percy added. "Like about the twins and what they're
up to."
"The twins!" Phorcys made his voice echo. Sparklers blazed to life in front of
the sea serpent tank. "Yes, I know all about Ephialtes and Otis. Those wannabes!
They never fit in with the other giants. Too puny-and those snakes for feet."
"Snakes for feet?" Percy remembered the long, curly shoes the twins had
been wearing in his dream.
"Yes, yes," Phorcys said impatiently. "They knew they couldn't get by on

their strength, so they decided to go for drama-illusions, stage tricks, that sort
of thing. You see, Gaea shaped her giant children with specific enemies in mind.
Each giant was born to kill a certain god. Ephialtes and Otis_well, together they
were sort of the anti-Dionysus."
Percy tried to wrap his mind around that idea. "So_they want to replace all
wine with cranberry juice or something?"
The sea god snorted. "Nothing like that! Ephialtes and Otis always wanted to
do things better, flashier, more spectacular! Oh, of course they wanted to kill
Dionysus. But first they wanted to humiliate him by making his revelries look
tame!"
Frank glanced at the sparklers. "By using stuff like fireworks and disco
balls?"
Phorcys's mouth stretched into that wind tunnel smile. "Exactly! I taught the
twins everything they know, or at least I tried to. They never listened. Their first
big trick? They tried to reach Olympus by piling mountains on top of one
another. It was just an illusion, of course. I told them it was ridiculous. 'You
should start small,' I said. 'Sawing each other in half, pulling gorgons out of a
hat. That sort of thing. And matching sequined outfits. Twins need those!'"
"Good advice," Percy agreed. "And now the twins are-"
"Oh, preparing for their doomsday show in Rome," Phorcys sneered. "It's
one of Mother's silly ideas. They're keeping some prisoner in a large bronze
jar." He turned toward Frank. "You're a child of Ares, aren't you? You've got
that smell. The twins imprisoned your father the same way, once."
"Child of Mars," Frank corrected. "Wait_these giants trapped my dad in a
bronze jar?"
"Yes, another stupid stunt," said the sea god. "How can you show off your
prisoner if he's in a bronze jar? No entertainment value. Not like my lovely
specimens!"
He gestured to the hippocampi, who were bonking their heads apathetically
against the glass.
Percy tried to think. He felt like the lethargy of the addled sea creatures was
starting to affect him. "You said this-this doomsday show was Gaea's idea?"

"Well_Mother's plans always have lots of layers." He laughed. "The earth
has layers! I suppose that makes sense!"
"Uh-huh," Percy said. "And so her plan_"
"Oh, she's put out a general bounty on some group of demigods," Phorcys
said. "She doesn't really care who kills them, as long as they're killed. Well_I
take that back. She was very specific that two must be spared. One boy and one
girl. Tartarus only knows why. At any rate, the twins have their little show
planned, hoping it will lure these demigods to Rome. I suppose the prisoner in
the jar is a friend of theirs or some such. That, or perhaps they think this group
of demigods will be foolish enough to come into their territory searching for the
Mark of Athena." Phorcys elbowed Frank in the ribs. "Ha! Good luck with that,
eh?"
Frank laughed nervously. "Yeah. Ha-ha. That would be really dumb because,
uh_"
Phorcys narrowed his eyes.
Percy slipped his hand into his pocket. He closed his fingers around Riptide.
Even this old sea god must be smart enough to realize they were the demigods
with the bounty on their heads.
But Phorcys just grinned and elbowed Frank again. "Ha! Good one, child of
Mars. I suppose you're right. No point talking about it. Even if the demigods
found that map in Charleston, they'd never make it to Rome alive!"
"Yes, the MAP IN CHARLESTON," Frank said loudly, giving Percy a wideeyed look to make sure he hadn't missed the information. He couldn't have been
more obvious if he had held up a large sign that read CLUE!!!!!
"But enough boring educational stuff!" Phorcys said. "You've paid for the
VIP treatment. Won't you please let me finish the tour? The three denarii
entrance fee is nonrefundable, you know."
Percy wasn't excited about more fireworks, donut-scented smoke, or
depressing captive sea creatures. But he glanced at Frank and decided they'd
better humor the crabby old god, at least until they found Coach Hedge and got
safely to the exit. Besides, they might be able to get more information out of
Phorcys.

"Afterward," Percy said, "can we ask questions?"
"Of course! I'll tell you everything you need to know." Phorcys clapped his
hands twice. On the wall under the glowing red sign, a new tunnel appeared,
leading into another tank.
"Walk this way!" Phorcys scuttled sideways through the tunnel.
Frank scratched his head. "Do we have to-?" He turned sideways.
"It's just a figure of speech, man," Percy said. "Come on."

THE TUNNEL RAN ALONG THE FLOOR of a gymnasium-sized tank. Except for water
and some cheap decorations, it seemed majestically empty. Percy guessed there
were about fifty thousand gallons of water over their heads. If the tunnel were to
shatter for some reason_
No big deal, Percy thought. I've been surrounded by water thousands of
times. This is my home court.
But his heart was pounding. He remembered sinking into the cold Alaskan
bog-black mud covering his eyes, mouth, and nose.
Phorcys stopped in the middle of the tunnel and spread his arms proudly.
"Beautiful exhibit, isn't it?"
Percy tried to distract himself by concentrating on details. In one corner of
the tank, snuggled in a forest of fake kelp, was a life-sized plastic gingerbread
cottage with bubbles coming out of the chimney. In the opposite corner, a plastic
sculpture of a guy in an old-fashioned diving suit knelt beside a treasure chest,
which popped open every few seconds, spewed bubbles, and closed again.
Littered across the white sand floor were glass marbles the size of bowling balls,
and a strange assortment of weapons like tridents and spearguns. Outside the
tank's display wall was an amphitheater with seating for several hundred.

"What do you keep in here?" Frank asked. "Giant killer goldfish?"
Phorcys raised his eyebrows. "Oh, that would be good! But, no, Frank Zhang,
descendant of Poseidon. This tank is not for goldfish."
At descendant of Poseidon, Frank flinched. He stepped back, gripping his
backpack like a mace he was prepared to swing.
A sense of dread trickled down Percy's throat like cough syrup.
Unfortunately, it was a feeling he was used to.
"How do you know Frank's last name?" he demanded. "How do you know
he's descended from Poseidon?"
"Well_" Phorcys shrugged, trying to look modest. "It was probably in the
descriptions Gaea provided. You know, for the bounty, Percy Jackson."
Percy uncapped his pen. Instantly, Riptide appeared in his hand. "Don't
double-cross me, Phorcys. You promised me answers."
"After the VIP treatment, yes," Phorcys agreed. "I promised to tell you
everything you need to know. The thing is, however, you don't really need to
know anything." His grotesque smile stretched wide. "You see, even if you
made it to Rome, which is quite unlikely, you'd never defeat my giant brothers
without a god fighting at your side. And what god would help you? So I have a
better plan. You're not leaving. You're VIPs-Very Important Prisoners!"
Percy lunged. Frank hurled his backpack at the sea god's head. Phorcys
simply disappeared.
The god's voice reverberated through the aquarium's sound system, echoing
down the tunnel. "Yes, good! Fighting is good! You see, Mother never trusted
me with big assignments, but she did agree that I could keep anything I caught.
You two will make an excellent exhibit-the only demigod spawn of Poseidon
in captivity. 'Demigod Terrors'-yes, I like that! We already have sponsorship
lined up with Bargain Mart. You can fight each other every day at eleven AM and
one PM, with an evening show at seven PM."
"You're crazy!" Frank yelled.
"Don't sell yourself short!" Phorcys said. "You'll be our biggest draw!"
Frank ran for the exit, only to slam into a glass wall. Percy ran the other way
and found it blocked as well. Their tunnel had become a bubble. He put his hand

against the glass and realized it was softening, melting like ice. Soon the water
would come crashing in.
"We won't cooperate, Phorcys!" he shouted.
"Oh, I'm optimistic," the sea god's voice boomed. "If you won't fight each
other at first, no problem! I can send in fresh sea monsters every day. After you
get used to the food here, you'll be properly sedated and will follow directions.
Believe me, you'll come to love your new home."
Over Percy's head, the glass dome cracked and began to leak.
"I'm the son of Poseidon!" Percy tried to keep the fear out of his voice. "You
can't imprison me in water. This is where I'm strongest."
Phorcys's laugh seemed to come from all around them. "What a coincidence!
It's also where I'm strongest. This tank is specially designed to contain
demigods. Now, have fun, you two. I'll see you at feeding time!"
The glass dome shattered, and the water crashed in.
Percy held his breath until he couldn't stand it. When he finally filled his lungs
with water, it felt just like normal breathing. The water pressure didn't bother
him. His clothes didn't even get wet. His underwater abilities were as good as
ever.
It's just a stupid phobia, he assured himself. I'm not going to drown.
Then he remembered Frank, and he immediately felt a surge of panic and
guilt. Percy had been so worried about himself that he'd forgotten his friend was
only a distant descendant of Poseidon. Frank couldn't breathe underwater.
But where was he?
Percy turned in a full circle. Nothing. Then he glanced up. Hovering about
him was a giant goldfish. Frank had turned-clothes, backpack, and all-into a
koi the size of a teenaged boy.
Dude. Percy sent his thoughts through the water, the way he spoke with other
sea creatures. A goldfish?
Frank's voice came back to him: I freaked. We were talking about goldfish,
so it was on my mind. Sue me.
I'm having a telepathic conversation with a giant koi, Percy said. Great. Can

you turn into something more_useful?
Silence. Maybe Frank was concentrating, though it was impossible to tell,
since koi don't have many expressions.
Sorry. Frank sounded embarrassed. I'm stuck. That happens sometimes when
I panic.
Fine. Percy gritted his teeth. Let's figure out how to escape.
Frank swam around the tank and reported no exits. The top was covered with
Celestial bronze mesh, like the curtains that roll down over closed storefronts at
the mall. Percy tried to cut through with Riptide, but he couldn't make a dent. He
tried to smash through the glass wall with his sword hilt-again, no luck. Then
he repeated his efforts with several of the weapons lying around the bottom of
the tank and managed to break three tridents, a sword, and a speargun.
Finally he tried to control the water. He wanted it to expand and break the
tank, or explode out the top. The water didn't obey. Maybe it was enchanted, or
under the power of Phorcys. Percy concentrated until his ears popped, but the
best he could do was blow the lid off the plastic treasure chest.
Well, that's it, he thought dejectedly. I'll have to live in a plastic gingerbread
house the rest of my life, fighting my giant goldfish friend and waiting for
feeding time.
Phorcys had promised they'd learn to love it. Percy thought about the dazed
telkhines, the Nereids and hippocampi, all swimming in bored, lazy circles. The
thought of ending up like that didn't help to lower his anxiety level.
He wondered if Phorcys was right. Even if they managed to escape, how
could they defeat the giants if the gods were all incapacitated? Bacchus might be
able to help. He had killed the twin giants once before, but he would only join
the fight if he got an impossible tribute, and the idea of giving Bacchus any kind
of tribute made Percy want to gag himself with a Monster Donut.
Look! Frank said.
Outside the glass, Keto was leading Coach Hedge through the amphitheater,
lecturing him on something while the coach nodded and admired the stadium
seating.
Coach! Percy yelled. Then he realized it was hopeless. The coach couldn't

hear telepathic yelling.
Frank bumped his head against the glass.
Hedge didn't seem to notice. Keto walked him briskly across the
amphitheater. She didn't even look through the glass, probably because she
assumed the tank was still empty. She pointed to the far end of the room as if
saying, Come on. More gruesome sea monsters this way.
Percy realized he had only a few seconds before the coach would be gone. He
swam after them, but the water didn't help him move as it usually did. In fact, it
seemed to be pushing him back. He dropped Riptide and used both arms.
Coach Hedge and Keto were five feet from the exit.
In desperation, Percy scooped up a giant marble and hurled it underhanded
like a bowling ball.
It hit the glass with a thunk-not nearly loud enough to attract attention.
Percy's heart sank.
But Coach Hedge had the ears of a satyr. He glanced over his shoulder. When
he saw Percy, his expression went through several changes in a matter of
microseconds-incomprehension, surprise, outrage, then a mask of calm.
Before Keto could notice, Hedge pointed toward the top of the amphitheater.
It looked like he might be screaming, Gods of Olympus, what is that?
Keto turned. Coach Hedge promptly took off his fake foot and ninja-kicked
her in the back of the head with his goat hoof. Keto crumpled to the floor.
Percy winced. His own recently whopped head throbbed in sympathy, but he
had never been happier to have a chaperone who liked mixed martial arts cage
matches.
Hedge ran to the glass. He held up his palms like: What are you doing in
there, Jackson?
Percy pounded his fist on the glass and mouthed: Break it!
Hedge yelled a question that might have been: Where's Frank?
Percy pointed at the giant koi.
Frank waved his left dorsal fin. 'Sup?
Behind Hedge, the sea goddess began to move. Percy pointed frantically.
Hedge shook his leg like he was warming up his kicking hoof, but Percy

waved his arms, No. They couldn't keep whopping Keto on the head forever.
Since she was immortal, she wouldn't stay down, and it wouldn't get them out of
this tank. It was only a matter of time before Phorcys came back to check on
them.
On three, Percy mouthed, holding up three fingers and then gesturing at the
glass. All of us hit it at the same time.
Percy had never been good at charades, but Hedge nodded like he
understood. Hitting things was a language the satyr knew well.
Percy hefted another giant marble. Frank, we'll need you too. Can you
change form yet?
Maybe back to human.
Human is fine! Just hold your breath. If this works_
Keto rose to her knees. No time to waste.
Percy counted on his fingers. One, two, three!
Frank turned to human and shoved his shoulder against the glass. The coach
did a Chuck Norris roundhouse kick with his hoof. Percy used all his strength to
slam the marble into the wall, but he did more than that. He called on the water
to obey him, and this time he refused to take no for an answer. He felt all the
pent-up pressure inside the tank, and he put it to use. Water liked to be free.
Given time, water could overcome any barrier, and it hated to be trapped, just
like Percy. He thought about getting back to Annabeth. He thought about
destroying this horrible prison for sea creatures. He thought about shoving
Phorcys's microphone down his ugly throat. Fifty thousand gallons of water
responded to his anger.
The glass wall cracked. Fracture lines zigzagged from the point of impact,
and suddenly the tank burst. Percy was sucked out in a torrent of water. He
tumbled across the amphitheater floor with Frank, some large marbles, and a
clump of plastic seaweed. Keto was just getting to her feet when the diver statue
slammed into her like it wanted a hug.
Coach Hedge spit salt water. "Pan's pipes, Jackson! What were you doing in
there?"
"Phorcys!" Percy spluttered. "Trap! Run!"

Alarms blared as they fled the exhibits. They ran past the Nereids' tank, then
the telkhines. Percy wanted to free them, but how? They were drugged and
sluggish, and they were sea creatures. They wouldn't survive unless he found a
way to transport them to the ocean.
Besides, if Phorcys caught them, Percy was pretty sure the sea god's power
would overcome his. And Keto would be after them too, ready to feed them to
her sea monsters.
I'll be back, Percy promised, but if the creatures in the exhibits could hear
him, they gave no sign.
Over the sound system, Phorcys's voice boomed: "Percy Jackson!"
Flash pots and sparklers exploded randomly. Donut-scented smoke filled the
halls. Dramatic music-five or six different tracks-blared simultaneously from
the speakers. Lights popped and caught fire as all the special effects in the
building were triggered at once.
Percy, Coach Hedge, and Frank stumbled out of the glass tunnel and found
themselves back in the whale shark room. The mortal section of the aquarium
was filled with screaming crowds-families and day camp groups running in
every direction while the staff raced around frantically, trying to assure everyone
it was just a faulty alarm system.
Percy knew better. He and his friends joined the mortals and ran for the exit.

ANNABETH WAS TRYING TO CHEER UP HAZEL, regaling her with Percy's greatest
Seaweed Brain moments, when Frank stumbled down the hall and burst into her
cabin.
"Where's Leo?" he gasped. "Take off! Take off!"
Both girls shot to their feet.
"Where's Percy?" Annabeth demanded. "And the goat?"
Frank grabbed his knees, trying to breathe. His clothes were stiff and damp,
like they'd been washed in pure starch. "On deck. They're fine. We're being
followed!"
Annabeth pushed past him and took the stairs three at a time, Hazel right
behind her and Frank trailing, still gasping for air. Percy and Hedge lay on the
deck, looking exhausted. Hedge was missing his shoes. He grinned at the sky,
muttering, "Awesome. Awesome." Percy was covered with nicks and scratches,
like he'd jumped through a window. He didn't say anything, but he grasped
Annabeth's hand weakly as if to say, Be right with you, as soon as the world
stops spinning.
Leo, Piper, and Jason, who'd been eating in the mess hall, came rushing up
the stairs.

"What? What?" Leo cried, holding a half-eaten grilled cheese sandwich.
"Can't a guy even take a lunch break? What's wrong?"
"Followed!" Frank yelled again.
"Followed by what?" Jason asked.
"I don't know!" Frank panted. "Whales? Sea monsters? Maybe Kate and
Porky!"
Annabeth wanted to strangle the guy, but she wasn't sure her hands would fit
around his thick neck. "That makes absolutely no sense. Leo, you'd better get us
out of here."
Leo put his sandwich between his teeth, pirate style, and ran for the helm.
Soon the Argo II was rising into the sky. Annabeth manned the aft crossbow.
She saw no sign of pursuit by whales or otherwise, but Percy, Frank, and Hedge
didn't start to recover until the Atlanta skyline was a hazy smudge in the
distance.
"Charleston," Percy said, hobbling around the deck like an old man. He still
sounded pretty shaken up. "Set course for Charleston."
"Charleston?" Jason said the name as if it brought back bad memories. "What
exactly did you find in Atlanta?"
Frank unzipped his backpack and starting bringing out souvenirs. "Some
peach preserves. A couple of T-shirts. A snow globe. And, um, these not-reallyChinese handcuffs."
Annabeth forced herself to stay calm. "How about you start from the top-of
the story, not the backpack."
They gathered on the quarterdeck so Leo could hear the conversation as he
navigated. Percy and Frank took turns relating what had happened at the Georgia
Aquarium, with Coach Hedge interjecting from time to time: "That was
awesome!" or "Then I kicked her in the head!"
At least the coach seemed to have forgotten about Percy and Annabeth falling
asleep in the stable the night before. But judging from Percy's story, Annabeth
had worse problems to worry about than being grounded.
When Percy explained about the captive sea creatures in the aquarium, she
understood why he seemed so upset.

"That's terrible," she said. "We need to help them."
"We will," Percy promised. "In time. But I have to figure out how. I wish_"
He shook his head. "Never mind. First we have to deal with this bounty on our
heads."
Coach Hedge had lost interest in the conversation-probably because it was
no longer about him-and wandered toward the bow of the ship, practicing his
roundhouse kicks and complimenting himself on his technique.
Annabeth gripped the hilt of her dagger. "A bounty on our heads_as if we
didn't attract enough monsters already."
"Do we get WANTED posters?" Leo asked. "And do they have our bounties,
like, broken down on a price list?"
Hazel wrinkled her nose. "What are you talking about?"
"Just curious how much I'm going for these days," Leo said. "I mean, I can
understand not being as pricey as Percy or Jason, maybe_but am I worth, like,
two Franks, or three Franks?"
"Hey!" Frank complained.
"Knock it off," Annabeth ordered. "At least we know our next step is to go to
Charleston, to find this map."
Piper leaned against the control panel. She'd done her braid with white
feathers today, which looked good with her dark brown hair. Annabeth
wondered how she found the time. Annabeth could barely remember to brush
her hair.
"A map," Piper said. "But a map to what?"
"The Mark of Athena." Percy looked cautiously at Annabeth, like he was
afraid he'd overstepped. She must have been putting out a strong I don't want to
talk about it vibe.
"Whatever that is," he continued. "We know it leads to something important
in Rome, something that might heal the rift between the Romans and Greeks."
"The giants' bane," Hazel added.
Percy nodded. "And in my dream, the twin giants said something about a
statue."
"Um_" Frank rolled his not-exactly-Chinese handcuffs between his fingers.

"According to Phorcys, we'd have to be insane to try to find it. But what is it?"
Everyone looked at Annabeth. Her scalp tingled, as if the thoughts in her
brain were agitating to get out: a statue_Athena_Greek and Roman, her
nightmares, and her argument with her mom. She saw how the pieces were
coming together, but she couldn't believe it was true. The answer was too big,
too important, and much too scary.
She noticed Jason studying her, as if he knew exactly what she was thinking
and didn't like it any more than she did. Again she couldn't help but wonder:
Why does this guy make me so nervous? Is he really on my side? Or maybe that
was her mom talking._
"I-I'm close to an answer," she said. "I'll know more if we find this map.
Jason, the way you reacted to the name Charleston_have you been there
before?"
Jason glanced uneasily at Piper, though Annabeth wasn't sure why.
"Yeah," he admitted. "Reyna and I did a quest there about a year ago. We
were salvaging Imperial gold weapons from the C.S.S. Hunley."
"The what?" Piper asked.
"Whoa!" Leo said. "That's the first successful military submarine. From the
Civil War. I always wanted to see that."
"It was designed by Roman demigods," Jason said. "It held a secret stash of
Imperial gold torpedoes-until we rescued them and brought them back to Camp
Jupiter."
Hazel crossed her arms. "So the Romans fought on the Confederate side? As
a girl whose grandmother was a slave, can I just say_not cool?"
Jason put his hands in front of him, palms up. "I personally was not alive
then. And it wasn't all Greeks on one side and all Romans on the other. But, yes.
Not cool. Sometimes demigods make bad choices." He looked sheepishly at
Hazel. "Like sometimes we're too suspicious. And we speak without thinking."
Hazel stared at him. Slowly it seemed to dawn on her that he was
apologizing.
Jason elbowed Leo.
"Ow!" Leo yelped. "I mean, yeah_bad choices. Like not trusting people's

brothers who, you know, might need saving. Hypothetically speaking."
Hazel pursed her lips. "Fine. Back to Charleston. Are you saying we should
check that submarine again?"
Jason shrugged. "Well_I can think of two places in Charleston we might
search. The museum where they keep the Hunley-that's one of them. It has a
lot of relics from the Civil War. A map could be hidden in one. I know the
layout. I could lead a team inside."
"I'll go," Leo said. "That sounds cool."
Jason nodded. He turned to Frank, who was trying to pull his fingers out of
the Chinese handcuffs. "You should come too, Frank. We might need you."
Frank looked surprised. "Why? Not like I was much good at that aquarium."
"You did fine," Percy assured him. "It took all three of us to break that
glass."
"Besides, you're a child of Mars," Jason said. "The ghosts of defeated causes
are bound to serve you. And the museum in Charleston has plenty of
Confederate ghosts. We'll need you to keep them in line."
Frank gulped. Annabeth remembered Percy's comment about Frank turning
into a giant goldfish, and she resisted the urge to smile. She would never be able
to look at the big guy again without seeing him as a koi.
"Okay." Frank relented. "Sure." He frowned at his fingers, trying to pull them
out of the trap. "Uh, how do you-?"
Leo chuckled. "Man, you've never seen those before? There's a simple trick
to getting out."
Frank tugged again with no luck. Even Hazel was trying not to laugh.
Frank grimaced with concentration. Suddenly, he disappeared. On the deck
where he'd been standing, a green iguana crouched next to an empty set of
Chinese handcuffs.
"Well done, Frank Zhang," Leo said dryly, doing his impression of Chiron
the centaur. "That is exactly how people beat Chinese handcuffs. They turn into
iguanas."
Everybody busted out laughing. Frank turned back to human, picked up the
handcuffs, and shoved them in his backpack. He managed an embarrassed smile.

"Anyway," Frank said, clearly anxious to change the subject. "The museum
is one place to search. But, uh, Jason, you said there were two?"
Jason's smile faded. Whatever he was thinking about, Annabeth could tell it
wasn't pleasant.
"Yeah," he said. "The other place is called the Battery-it's a park right by
the harbor. The last time I was there_with Reyna_" He glanced at Piper, then
rushed on. "We saw something in the park. A ghost or some sort of spirit, like a
Southern belle from the Civil War, glowing and floating along. We tried to
approach it, but it disappeared whenever we got close. Then Reyna had this
feeling-she said she should try it alone. Like maybe it would only talk to a girl.
She went up to the spirit by herself, and sure enough, it spoke to her."
Everyone waited.
"What did it say?" Annabeth asked.
"Reyna wouldn't tell me," Jason admitted. "But it must have been important.
She seemed_shaken up. Maybe she got a prophecy or some bad news. Reyna
never acted the same around me after that."
Annabeth considered that. After their experience with the eidolons, she didn't
like the idea of approaching a ghost, especially one that changed people with bad
news or prophecies. On the other hand, her mom was the goddess of knowledge,
and knowledge was the most powerful weapon. Annabeth couldn't turn down a
possible source of information.
"A girls' adventure, then," Annabeth said. "Piper and Hazel can come with
me."
Both nodded, though Hazel looked nervous. No doubt her time in the
Underworld had given her enough ghost experiences for two lifetimes. Piper's
eyes flashed defiantly, like anything Reyna could do, she could do.
Annabeth realized that if six of them went on these two quests, it would leave
Percy alone on the ship with Coach Hedge, which was maybe not a situation a
caring girlfriend should put him in. Nor was she eager to let Percy out of her
sight again-not after they'd been apart for so many months. On the other hand,
Percy looked so troubled by his experience with those imprisoned sea creatures,
she thought maybe he could use a rest. She met his eyes, asking him a silent

question. He nodded as if to say, Yeah. It'll be fine.
"So that's settled." Annabeth turned to Leo, who was studying his console,
listening to Festus creak and click over the intercom. "Leo, how long until we
reach Charleston?"
"Good question," he muttered. "Festus just detected a large group of eagles
behind us-long-range radar, still not in sight."
Piper leaned over the console. "Are you sure they're Roman?"
Leo rolled his eyes. "No, Pipes. It could be a random group of giant eagles
flying in perfect formation. Of course they're Roman! I suppose we could turn
the ship around and fight-"
"Which would be a very bad idea," Jason said, "and remove any doubt that
we're enemies of Rome."
"Or I've got another idea," Leo said. "If we went straight to Charleston, we
could be there in a few hours. But the eagles would overtake us, and things
would get complicated. Instead, we could send out a decoy to trick the eagles.
We take the ship on a detour, go the long way to Charleston, and get there
tomorrow morning-"
Hazel started to protest, but Leo raised his hand. "I know, I know. Nico's in
trouble and we have to hurry."
"It's June twenty-seventh," Hazel said. "After today, four more days. Then he
dies."
"I know! But this might throw the Romans off our trail. We still should have
enough time to reach Rome."
Hazel scowled. "When you say should have enough_"
Leo shrugged. "How do you feel about barely enough?"
Hazel put her face in her hands for a count of three. "Sounds about typical for
us."
Annabeth decided to take that as a green light. "Okay, Leo. What kind of
decoy are we talking about?"
"I'm so glad you asked!" He punched a few buttons on the console, rotated
the turntable, and repeatedly pressed the A button on his Wii controller really,
really fast. He called into the intercom, "Buford? Report for duty, please."

Frank took a step back. "There's somebody else on the ship? Who is
Buford?"
A puff of steam shot from the stairwell, and Leo's automatic table climbed on
deck.
Annabeth hadn't seen much of Buford during the trip. He mostly stayed in
the engine room. (Leo insisted that Buford had a secret crush on the engine.) He
was a three-legged table with a mahogany top. His bronze base had several
drawers, spinning gears, and a set of steam vents. Buford was toting a bag like a
mail sack tied to one of his legs. He clattered to the helm and made a sound like
a train whistle.
"This is Buford," Leo announced.
"You name your furniture?" Frank asked.
Leo snorted. "Man, you just wish you had furniture this cool. Buford, are you
ready for Operation End Table?"
Buford spewed steam. He stepped to the railing. His mahogany top split into
four pie slices, which elongated into wooden blades. The blades spun, and
Buford took off.
"A helicopter table," Percy muttered. "Gotta admit, that's cool. What's in the
bag?"
"Dirty demigod laundry," Leo said. "I hope you don't mind, Frank."
Frank choked. "What?"
"It'll throw the eagles off our scent."
"Those were my only extra pants!"
Leo shrugged. "I asked Buford to get them laundered and folded while he's
out. Hopefully he will." He rubbed his hands and grinned. "Well! I call that a
good day's work. I'm gonna calculate our detour route now. See you all at
dinner!"
Percy passed out early, which left Annabeth with nothing to do in the evening
except stare at her computer.
She'd brought Daedalus's laptop with her, of course. Two years ago, she'd
inherited the machine from the greatest inventor of all time, and it was loaded

with invention ideas, schematics, and diagrams, most of which Annabeth was
still trying to figure out. After two years, a typical laptop would have been out of
date, but Annabeth figured Daedalus's machine was still about fifty years ahead
of its time. It could expand into a full-size laptop, shrink into a tablet computer,
or fold into a wafer of metal smaller than a cell phone. It ran faster than any
computer she'd ever had, could access satellites or Hephaestus-TV broadcasts
from Mount Olympus, and ran custom-made programs that could do just about
anything except tie shoelaces. There might have been an app for that, too, but
Annabeth hadn't found it yet.
She sat on her bunk, using one of Daedalus's 3-D-rendering programs to
study a model of the Parthenon in Athens. She'd always yearned to visit it, both
because she loved architecture and because it was the most famous temple to her
mother.
Now she might get her wish, if they lived long enough to reach Greece. But
the more she thought about the Mark of Athena, and the old Roman legend
Reyna had mentioned, the more nervous she got.
She didn't want to, but she recalled her argument with her mother. Even after
so many weeks, the words still stung.
Annabeth had been riding the subway back from the Upper East Side after
visiting Percy's mom. During those long months when Percy was missing,
Annabeth made the trip at least once a week-partly to give Sally Jackson and
her husband Paul an update on the search, and partly because Annabeth and
Sally needed to lift each other's spirits and convince one another that Percy
would be fine.
The spring had been especially hard. By then, Annabeth had reason to hope
Percy was alive, since Hera's plan seemed to involve sending him to the Roman
side, but she couldn't be sure where he was. Jason had remembered his old
camp's location more or less, but all the Greeks' magic-even that of the
campers of Hecate's cabin-couldn't confirm that Percy was there, or anywhere.
He seemed to have disappeared from the planet. Rachel the Oracle had tried to
read the future, and while she couldn't see much, she'd been certain that Leo
needed to finish the Argo II before they could contact the Romans.

Nevertheless, Annabeth had spent every spare moment scouring all sources
for any rumors of Percy. She had talked to nature spirits, read legends about
Rome, dug for clues on Daedalus's notebook, and spent hundreds of golden
drachmas on Iris-messages to every friendly spirit, demigod, or monster she'd
ever met, all with no luck.
That particular afternoon, coming back from Sally's, Annabeth had felt even
more drained than usual. She and Sally had first cried and then attempted to pull
themselves together, but their nerves were frayed. Finally Annabeth took the
Lexington Avenue subway down to Grand Central.
There were other ways to get back to her high school dorm from the Upper
East Side, but Annabeth liked going through Grand Central Terminal. The
beautiful design and the vast open space reminded her of Mount Olympus.
Grand buildings made her feel better-maybe because being in a place so
permanent made her feel more permanent.
She had just passed Sweet on America, the candy shop where Percy's mom
used to work, and was thinking about going inside to buy some blue candy for
old times' sake, when she saw Athena studying the subway map on the wall.
"Mother!" Annabeth couldn't believe it. She hadn't seen her mom in months
-not since Zeus had closed the gates of Olympus and forbidden all
communication with demigods.
Many times, Annabeth had tried to call on her mom anyway, pleading for
guidance, sending up burnt offerings with every meal at camp. She'd had no
response. Now here was Athena, dressed in jeans and hiking boots and a red
flannel shirt, her dark hair cascading over her shoulders. She held a backpack
and a walking stick like she was prepared for a long journey.
"I must return home," Athena murmured, studying the map. "The way is
complex. I wish Odysseus were here. He would understand."
"Mom!" Annabeth said. "Athena!"
The goddess turned. She seemed to look right through Annabeth with no
recognition.
"That was my name," the goddess said dreamily. "Before they sacked my
city, took my identity, made me this." She looked at her clothes in disgust. "I

must return home."
Annabeth stepped back in shock. "You're_you're Minerva?"
"Don't call me that!" The goddess's gray eyes flared with anger. "I used to
carry a spear and a shield. I held victory in the palm of my hand. I was so much
more than this."
"Mom." Annabeth's voice trembled. "It's me, Annabeth. Your daughter."
"My daughter_" Athena repeated. "Yes, my children will avenge me. They
must destroy the Romans. Horrible, dishonorable, copycat Romans. Hera argued
that we must keep the two camps apart. I said, No, let them fight. Let my
children destroy the usurpers."
Annabeth's heartbeat thumped in her ears. "You wanted that? But you're
wise. You understand warfare better than any-"
"Once!" the goddess said. "Replaced. Sacked. Looted like a trophy and carted
off-away from my beloved homeland. I lost so much. I swore I would never
forgive. Neither would my children." She focused more closely on Annabeth.
"You are my daughter?"
"Yes."
The goddess fished something from the pocket of her shirt-an old-fashioned
subway token-and pressed it into Annabeth's hand.
"Follow the Mark of Athena," the goddess said. "Avenge me."
Annabeth had looked at the coin. As she watched, it changed from a New
York subway token to an ancient silver drachma, the kind used by Athenians. It
showed an owl, Athena's sacred animal, with an olive branch on one side and a
Greek inscription on the other.
The Mark of Athena.
At the time, Annabeth had had no idea what it meant. She didn't understand
why her mom was acting like this. Minerva or not, she shouldn't be so confused.
"Mom_" She tried to make her tone as reasonable as possible. "Percy is
missing. I need your help." She had started to explain Hera's plan for bringing
the camps together to battle Gaea and the giants, but the goddess stamped her
walking stick against the marble floor.
"Never!" she said. "Anyone who helps Rome must perish. If you would join

them, you are no child of mine. You have already failed me."
"Mother!"
"I care nothing about this Percy. If he has gone over to the Romans, let him
perish. Kill him. Kill all the Romans. Find the Mark, follow it to its source.
Witness how Rome has disgraced me, and pledge your vengeance."
"Athena isn't the goddess of revenge." Annabeth's nails bit into her palms.
The silver coin seemed to grow warmer in her hand. "Percy is everything to me."
"And revenge is everything to me," the goddess snarled. "Which of us is
wiser?"
"Something is wrong with you. What's happened?"
"Rome happened!" the goddess said bitterly. "See what they have done,
making a Roman of me. They wish me to be their goddess? Then let them taste
their own evil. Kill them, child."
"No!"
"Then you are nothing." The goddess turned to the subway map. Her
expression softened, becoming confused and unfocused. "If I could find the
route_the way home, then perhaps- But, no. Avenge me or leave me. You are
no child of mine."
Annabeth's eyes stung. She thought of a thousand horrible things she wanted
to say, but she couldn't. She had turned and fled.
She'd tried to throw away the silver coin, but it simply reappeared in her
pocket, the way Riptide did for Percy. Unfortunately, Annabeth's drachma had
no magical powers-at least nothing useful. It only gave her nightmares, and no
matter what she tried, she couldn't get rid of it.
Now, sitting in her cabin aboard the Argo II, she could feel the coin growing
warm in her pocket. She stared at the model of the Parthenon on her computer
screen and thought about the argument with Athena. Phrases she'd heard over
the last few days swirled in her head: A talented friend, ready for her visitor. No
one will retrieve that statue. Wisdom's daughter walks alone.
She was afraid she finally understood what it all meant. She prayed to the
gods that she was wrong.
A knock on her door made her jump.

She hoped it might be Percy, but instead Frank Zhang poked his head in.
"Um, sorry," he said. "Could I-?"
She was so startled to see him, it took her a moment to realize he wanted to
come in.
"Sure," she said. "Yes."
He stepped inside, looking around the cabin. There wasn't much to see. On
her desk sat a stack of books, a journal and pen, and a picture of her dad flying
his Sopwith Camel biplane, grinning and giving the thumbs-up. Annabeth liked
that photo. It reminded her of the time she'd felt closest to him, when he'd
strafed an army of monsters with Celestial bronze machine guns just to protect
her-pretty much the best present a girl could hope for.
Hanging from a hook on the wall was her New York Yankees cap, her most
prized possession from her mom. Once, the cap had had the power to turn its
wearer invisible. Since Annabeth's argument with Athena, the cap had lost its
magic. Annabeth wasn't sure why, but she'd stubbornly brought it along on the
quest. Every morning she would try it on, hoping it would work again. So far it
had only served as a reminder of her mother's wrath.
Otherwise, her cabin was bare. She kept it clean and simple, which helped her
to think. Percy didn't believe it because she always made excellent grades, but
like most demigods, she was ADHD. When there were too many distractions in
her personal space, she was never able to focus.
"So_Frank," she ventured. "What can I do for you?"
Out of all the kids on the ship, Frank was the one she thought least likely to
pay her a visit. She didn't feel any less confused when he blushed and pulled his
Chinese handcuffs out of his pocket.
"I don't like being in the dark about this," he muttered. "Could you show me
the trick? I didn't feel comfortable asking anyone else."
Annabeth processed his words with a slight delay. Wait_Frank was asking
her for help? Then it dawned on her: of course, Frank was embarrassed. Leo had
been razzing him pretty hard. Nobody liked being a laughingstock. Frank's
determined expression said he never wanted that to happen again. He wanted to
understand the puzzle, without the iguana solution.

Annabeth felt strangely honored. Frank trusted her not to make fun of him.
Besides, she had a soft spot for anyone who was seeking knowledge-even
about something as simple as Chinese handcuffs.
She patted the bunk next to her. "Absolutely. Sit down."
Frank sat on the edge of the mattress, as if preparing for a quick escape.
Annabeth took the Chinese handcuffs and held them next to her computer.
She hit the key for an infrared scan. A few seconds later a 3-D model of the
Chinese handcuffs appeared on the screen. She turned the laptop so that Frank
could see.
"How did you do that?" he marveled.
"Cutting-edge Ancient Greek technology," she said. "Okay, look. The
structure is a cylindrical biaxial braid, so it has excellent resilience." She
manipulated the image so it squeezed in and out like an accordion. "When you
put your fingers inside, it loosens. But when you try to remove them, the
circumference shrinks as the braid catches and tightens. There's no way you can
pull free by struggling."
Frank stared at her blankly. "But what's the answer?"
"Well_" She showed him some of her calculations-how the handcuffs
could resist tearing under incredible stress, depending on the material used in the
braid. "Pretty amazing for a woven structure, right? Doctors use it for traction,
and electrical contractors-"
"Uh, but the answer?"
Annabeth laughed. "You don't fight against the handcuffs. You push your
fingers in, not out. That loosens the braid."
"Oh." Frank tried it. It worked. "Thanks, but_couldn't you have just shown
me on the handcuffs without the 3-D program and the calculations?"
Annabeth hesitated. Sometimes wisdom came from strange places, even from
giant teenaged goldfish. "I guess you're right. That was silly. I learned
something too."
Frank tried the handcuffs again. "It's easy when you know the solution."
"Many of the best traps are simple," Annabeth said. "You just have to think
about it, and hope your victim doesn't."

Frank nodded. He seemed reluctant to leave.
"You know," Annabeth said, "Leo doesn't intend to be mean. He's just got a
big mouth. When people make him nervous, he uses humor as a defense."
Frank frowned. "Why would I make him nervous?"
"You're twice his size. You can turn into a dragon." And Hazel likes you,
Annabeth thought, though she didn't say that.
Frank didn't look convinced. "Leo can summon fire." He twisted the
handcuffs. "Annabeth_sometime, maybe could you help me with another
problem that's not so simple? I've got_I guess you'd call it an Achilles' heel."
Annabeth felt like she'd just had a drink of Roman hot chocolate. She'd never
really gotten the term warm and fuzzy, but Frank gave her that sensation. He was
just a big teddy bear. She could see why Hazel liked him. "I'd be happy to," she
said. "Does anyone else know about this Achilles' heel?"
"Percy and Hazel," he said. "That's it. Percy_he's a really good guy. I
would follow him anywhere. Thought you should know."
Annabeth patted his arm. "Percy has a knack for picking good friends. Like
you. But, Frank, you can trust anyone on this ship. Even Leo. We're all a team.
We have to trust each other."
"I-I suppose."
"So what's the weakness you're worried about?"
The dinner bell sounded, and Frank jumped.
"Maybe_maybe later," he said. "It's hard to talk about. But thanks,
Annabeth." He held up the Chinese handcuffs. "Keep it simple."

THAT NIGHT, ANNABETH SLEPT without nightmares, which just made her uneasy
when she woke up-like the calm before a storm.
Leo docked the ship at a pier in Charleston Harbor, right next to the seawall.
Along the shore was a historical district with tall mansions, palm trees, and
wrought-iron fences. Antique cannons pointed at the water.
By the time Annabeth came up on deck, Jason, Frank, and Leo had already
left for the museum. According to Coach Hedge, they'd promised to be back by
sunset. Piper and Hazel were ready to go, but first Annabeth turned to Percy,
who was leaning on the starboard rail, gazing over the bay.
Annabeth took his hand. "What are you going to do while we're gone?"
"Jump into the harbor," he said casually, like another kid might say, I'm
going to get a snack. "I want to try communicating with the local Nereids.
Maybe they can give me some advice about how to free those captives in
Atlanta. Besides, I think the sea might be good for me. Being in that aquarium
made me feel_unclean."
His hair was dark and tangled as usual, but Annabeth thought about the streak
of gray he used to have on one side. When the two of them were fourteen, they'd
taken turns (unwillingly) holding the weight of the sky. The strain left them both

with some gray hair. Over the last year, while Percy had been missing, the gray
streaks had finally disappeared from both of them, which made Annabeth sad
and a little worried. She felt like she'd lost a symbolic bond with Percy.
Annabeth kissed him. "Good luck, Seaweed Brain. Just come back to me,
okay?"
"I will," he promised. "You do the same."
Annabeth tried to push down her growing unease.
She turned to Piper and Hazel. "Okay, ladies. Let's find the ghost of the
Battery."
Afterward, Annabeth wished she'd jumped into the harbor with Percy. She even
would've preferred a museum full of ghosts.
Not that she minded hanging out with Hazel and Piper. At first, they had a
pretty good time walking along the Battery. According to the signs, the seaside
park was called White Point Gardens. The ocean breeze swept away the muggy
heat of the summer afternoon, and it was pleasantly cool under the shade of the
palmetto trees. Lining the road were old Civil War cannons and bronze statues of
historical figures, which made Annabeth shudder. She thought about the statues
in New York City during the Titan War, which had come to life thanks to
Daedalus's command sequence twenty-three. She wondered how many other
statues around the country were secretly automatons, waiting to be triggered.
Charleston Harbor glittered in the sun. To the north and south, strips of land
stretched out like arms enclosing the bay, and sitting in the mouth of the harbor,
about a mile out, was an island with a stone fort. Annabeth had a vague memory
of that fort being important in the Civil War, but she didn't spend much time
thinking about it.
Mostly she breathed in the sea air and thought about Percy. Gods forbid she
ever had to break up with him. She'd never be able to visit the sea again without
remembering her broken heart. She was relieved when they turned away from
the seawall and explored the inland side of the gardens.
The park wasn't crowded. Annabeth imagined that most of the locals had
gone on summer vacation, or were holed up at home taking a siesta. They

strolled along South Battery Street, which was lined with four-story Colonial
mansions. The brick walls were blanketed with ivy. The facades had soaring
white columns like Roman temples. The front gardens were bursting with
rosebushes, honeysuckle, and flowering bougainvillea. It looked like Demeter
had set the timer on all the plants to grow several decades ago, then forgotten to
come back and check on them.
"Kind of reminds me of New Rome," Hazel said. "All the big mansions and
the gardens. The columns and arches."
Annabeth nodded. She remembered reading how the American South had
often compared itself to Rome back before the Civil War. In the old days their
society had been all about impressive architecture, honor, and codes of chivalry.
And on the evil side, it had also been about slavery. Rome had slaves, some
Southerners had argued, so why shouldn't we?
Annabeth shivered. She loved the architecture here. The houses and the
gardens were very beautiful, very Roman. But she wondered why beautiful
things had to be wrapped up with evil history. Or was it the other way around?
Maybe the evil history made it necessary to build beautiful things, to mask the
darker aspects.
She shook her head. Percy would hate her getting so philosophical. If she
tried to talk to him about stuff like that, his eyes glazed over.
The other girls didn't say much.
Piper kept looking around like she expected an ambush. She had said she'd
seen this park in the blade of her knife, but she wouldn't elaborate. Annabeth
guessed she was afraid to. After all, the last time Piper had tried to interpret a
vision from her knife, Percy and Jason had almost killed each other in Kansas.
Hazel also seemed preoccupied. Maybe she was taking in their surroundings,
or maybe she was worrying about her brother. In less than four days, unless they
found him and freed him, Nico would be dead.
Annabeth felt that deadline weighing on her, too. She'd always had mixed
feelings about Nico di Angelo. She suspected that he'd had a crush on her ever
since they rescued him and his big sister Bianca from that military academy in
Maine; but Annabeth had never felt any attraction to Nico. He was too young

and too moody. There was a darkness in him that made her uneasy.
Still, she felt responsible for him. Back when they had met, neither of them
had known about his half sister, Hazel. At the time, Bianca had been Nico's only
living family. When she had died, Nico became a homeless orphan, drifting
through the world alone. Annabeth could relate to that.
She was so deep in thought, she might have kept walking around the park
forever, but Piper grabbed her arm.
"There." She pointed across the harbor. A hundred yards out, a shimmering
white figure floated on the water. At first, Annabeth thought it might be a buoy
or a small boat reflecting the sunlight, but it was definitely glowing, and it was
moving more smoothly than a boat, making a straight line toward them. As it got
closer, Annabeth could tell it was the figure of a woman.
"The ghost," she said.
"That's not a ghost," Hazel said. "No kind of spirit glows that brightly."
Annabeth decided to take her word for it. She couldn't imagine being Hazel,
dying at such a young age and coming back from the Underworld, knowing
more about the dead than the living.
As if in a trance, Piper walked across the street toward the edge of the
seawall, narrowly avoiding a horse-drawn carriage.
"Piper!" Annabeth called.
"We'd better follow her," Hazel said.
By the time Annabeth and Hazel caught up to her, the ghostly apparition was
only a few yards away.
Piper glared at it like the sight offended her.
"It is her," she grumbled.
Annabeth squinted at the ghost, but it blazed too brightly to make out details.
Then the apparition floated up the seawall and stopped in front of them. The
glow faded.
Annabeth gasped. The woman was breathtakingly beautiful and strangely
familiar. Her face was hard to describe. Her features seemed to shift from those
of one glamorous movie star to another. Her eyes sparkled playfully-
sometimes green or blue or amber. Her hair changed from long, straight blond to

dark chocolatey curls.
Annabeth was instantly jealous. She'd always wished she had dark hair. She
felt like nobody took her seriously as a blonde. She had to work twice as hard to
get recognition as a strategist, an architect, a senior counselor-anything that
had to do with brains.
The woman was dressed like a Southern belle, just as Jason had described.
Her gown had a low-cut bodice of pink silk and a three-tiered hoop skirt with
white scalloped lace. She wore tall white silk gloves, and held a feathered pinkand-white fan to her chest.
Everything about her seemed calculated to make Annabeth feel inadequate:
the easy grace with which she wore her dress, the perfect yet understated
makeup, the way she radiated feminine charm that no man could possibly resist.
Annabeth realized that her jealousy was irrational. The woman was making
her feel this way. She'd had this experience before. She recognized this woman,
even though her face changed by the second, becoming more and more beautiful.
"Aphrodite," she said.
"Venus?" Hazel asked in amazement.
"Mom," Piper said, with no enthusiasm.
"Girls!" The goddess spread her arms like she wanted a group hug.
The three demigods did not oblige. Hazel backed into a palmetto tree.
"I'm so glad you're here," Aphrodite said. "War is coming. Bloodshed is
inevitable. So there's really only one thing to do."
"Uh_and that is?" Annabeth ventured.
"Why, have tea and chat, obviously. Come with me!"
Aphrodite knew how to do tea.
She led them to the central pavilion in the gardens-a white-pillared gazebo,
where a table was set with silverware, china cups, and of course a steaming pot
of tea, the fragrance shifting as easily as Aphrodite's appearance-sometimes
cinnamon, or jasmine, or mint. There were plates of scones, cookies, and
muffins, fresh butter and jam-all of which, Annabeth figured, were incredibly
fattening; unless, of course, you were the immortal goddess of love.

Aphrodite sat-or held court, rather-in a wicker peacock chair. She poured
tea and served cakes without getting a speck on her clothes, her posture always
perfect, her smile dazzling.
Annabeth hated her more and more the longer they sat.
"Oh, my sweet girls," the goddess said. "I do love Charleston! The weddings
I've attended in this gazebo-they bring tears to my eyes. And the elegant balls
in the days of the Old South. Ah, they were lovely. Many of these mansions still
have statues of me in their gardens, though they called me Venus."
"Which are you?" Annabeth asked. "Venus or Aphrodite?"
The goddess sipped her tea. Her eyes sparkled mischievously. "Annabeth
Chase, you've grown into quite a beautiful young lady. You really should do
something with your hair, though. And, Hazel Levesque, your clothes-"
"My clothes?" Hazel looked down at her rumpled denim, not selfconsciously, but baffled, as if she couldn't imagine what was wrong with them.
"Mother!" Piper said. "You're embarrassing me."
"Well, I don't see why," the goddess said. "Just because you don't appreciate
my fashion tips, Piper, doesn't mean the others won't. I could do a quick
makeover for Annabeth and Hazel, perhaps silk ball gowns like mine-"
"Mother!"
"Fine," Aphrodite sighed. "To answer your question, Annabeth, I am both
Aphrodite and Venus. Unlike many of my fellow Olympians, I changed hardly at
all from one age to the other. In fact, I like to think I haven't aged a bit!" Her
fingers fluttered around her face appreciatively. "Love is love, after all, whether
you're Greek or Roman. This civil war won't affect me as much as it will the
others."
Wonderful, Annabeth thought. Her own mother, the most levelheaded
Olympian, was reduced to a raving, vicious scatterbrain in a subway station. And
of all the gods who might help them, the only ones not affected by the Greek-
Roman schism seemed to be Aphrodite, Nemesis, and Dionysus. Love, revenge,
wine. Very helpful.
Hazel nibbled a sugar cookie. "We're not in a war yet, my lady."
"Oh, dear Hazel." Aphrodite folded her fan. "Such optimism, yet you have

heartrending days ahead of you. Of course war is coming. Love and war always
go together. They are the peaks of human emotion! Evil and good, beauty and
ugliness."
She smiled at Annabeth as if she knew what Annabeth had been thinking
earlier about the Old South.
Hazel set down her sugar cookie. She had a few crumbs on her chin, and
Annabeth liked the fact that Hazel either didn't know or didn't care.
"What do you mean," Hazel asked, "heartrending days?"
The goddess laughed as if Hazel were a cute puppy. "Well, Annabeth could
give you some idea. I once promised to make her love life interesting. And
didn't I?"
Annabeth almost snapped the handle off her teacup. For years, her heart had
been torn. First there was Luke Castellan, her first crush, who had seen her only
as a little sister; then he'd turned evil and decided he liked her-right before he
died. Next came Percy, who was infuriating but sweet, yet he had seemed to be
falling for another girl named Rachel, and then he almost died, several times.
Finally Annabeth had gotten Percy to herself, only to have him vanish for six
months and lose his memory.
"Interesting," Annabeth said, "is a mild way of putting it."
"Well, I can't take credit for all your troubles," the goddess said. "But I do
love twists and turns in a love story. Oh, all of you are such excellent stories-I
mean, girls. You do me proud!"
"Mother," Piper said, "is there a reason you're here?"
"Hmm? Oh, you mean besides the tea? I often come here. I love the view, the
food, the atmosphere-you can just smell the romance and heartbreak in the air,
can't you? Centuries of it."
She pointed to a nearby mansion. "Do you see that rooftop balcony? We had
a party there the night the American Civil War began. The shelling of Fort
Sumter."
"That's it," Annabeth remembered. "The island in the harbor. That's where
the first fighting of the Civil War happened. The Confederates shelled the Union
troops and took the fort."

"Oh, such a party!" Aphrodite said. "A string quartet, and all the men in their
elegant new officers' uniforms. The women's dresses-you should've seen
them! I danced with Ares-or was he Mars? I'm afraid I was a little giddy. And
the beautiful bursts of light across the harbor, the roar of the cannons giving the
men an excuse to put their arms around their frightened sweethearts!"
Annabeth's tea was cold. She hadn't eaten anything, but she felt like she
wanted to throw up. "You're talking about the beginning of the bloodiest war in
U.S. history. Over six hundred thousand people died-more Americans than in
World War One and World War Two combined."
"And the refreshments!" Aphrodite continued. "Ah, they were divine.
General Beauregard himself made an appearance. He was such a scoundrel. He
was on his second wife, then, but you should have seen the way he looked at
Lisbeth Cooper-"
"Mother!" Piper tossed her scone to the pigeons.
"Yes, sorry," the goddess said. "To make the story short, I'm here to help
you, girls. I doubt you'll be seeing Hera much. Your little quest has hardly made
her welcome in the throne room. And the other gods are rather indisposed, as
you know, torn between their Roman and Greek sides. Some more than others."
Aphrodite fixed her gaze on Annabeth. "I suppose you've told your friends
about your falling-out with your mother?"
Heat rose to Annabeth's cheeks. Hazel and Piper looked at her curiously.
"Falling-out?" Hazel asked.
"An argument," Annabeth said. "It's nothing."
"Nothing!" the goddess said. "Well, I don't know about that. Athena was the
most Greek of all goddesses. The patron of Athens, after all. When the Romans
took over_oh, they adopted Athena after a fashion. She became Minerva, the
goddess of crafts and cleverness. But the Romans had other war gods who were
more to their taste, more reliably Roman-like Bellona-"
"Reyna's mom," Piper muttered.
"Yes, indeed," the goddess agreed. "I had a lovely talk with Reyna a while
back, right here in the park. And the Romans had Mars, of course. And later,
there was Mithras-not even properly Greek or Roman, but the legionnaires

were crazy about his cult. I always found him crass and terribly nouveau dieu,
personally. At any rate, the Romans quite sidelined poor Athena. They took
away most of her military importance. The Greeks never forgave the Romans for
that insult. Neither did Athena."
Annabeth's ears buzzed.
"The Mark of Athena," she said. "It leads to a statue, doesn't it? It leads to_
to the statue."
Aphrodite smiled. "You are clever, like your mother. Understand, though,
your siblings, the children of Athena, have been searching for centuries. None
has succeeded in recovering the statue. In the meantime, they've been keeping
alive the Greek feud with the Romans. Every civil war_so much bloodshed and
heartbreak_has been orchestrated largely by Athena's children."
"That's_" Annabeth wanted to say impossible, but she remembered
Athena's bitter words in Grand Central Station, the burning hatred in her eyes.
"Romantic?" Aphrodite offered. "Yes, I supposed it is."
"But_" Annabeth tried to clear the fog from her brain. "The Mark of Athena,
how does it work? Is it a series of clues, or a trail set by Athena-"
"Hmm." Aphrodite looked politely bored. "I couldn't say. I don't believe
Athena created the Mark consciously. If she knew where her statue was, she'd
simply tell you where to find it. No_I'd guess the Mark is more like a spiritual
trail of bread crumbs. It's a connection between the statue and the children of the
goddess. The statue wants to be found, you see, but it can only be freed by the
most worthy."
"And for thousands of years," Annabeth said, "no one has managed."
"Hold on," Piper said. "What statue are we talking about?"
The goddess laughed. "Oh, I'm sure Annabeth can fill you in. At any rate, the
clue you need is close by: a map of sorts, left by the children of Athena in 1861
-a remembrance that will start you on your path, once you reach Rome. But as
you said, Annabeth Chase, no one has ever succeeded in following the Mark of
Athena to its end. There you will face your worst fear-the fear of every child of
Athena. And even if you survive, how will you use your reward? For war or for
peace?"

Annabeth was glad for the tablecloth, because under the table, her legs were
trembling. "This map," she said, "where is it?"
"Guys!" Hazel pointed to the sky.
Circling above the palmetto trees were two large eagles. Higher up,
descending rapidly, was a flying chariot pulled by pegasi. Apparently Leo's
diversion with Buford the end table hadn't worked-at least not for long.
Aphrodite spread butter on a muffin as if she had all the time in the world.
"Oh, the map is at Fort Sumter, of course." She pointed her butter knife toward
the island across the harbor. "It looks like the Romans have arrived to cut you
off. I'd get back to your ship in a hurry if I were you. Would you care for some
tea cakes to go?"

THEY DIDN'T MAKE IT TO THE SHIP.
Halfway across the dock, three giant eagles descended in front of them. Each
deposited a Roman commando in purple and denim with glittering gold armor,
sword, and shield. The eagles flew away, and the Roman in the middle, who was
scrawnier than the others, raised his visor.
"Surrender to Rome!" Octavian shrieked.
Hazel drew her cavalry sword and grumbled, "Fat chance, Octavian."
Annabeth cursed under her breath. By himself, the skinny augur wouldn't
have bothered her, but the two other guys looked like seasoned warriors-a lot
bigger and stronger than Annabeth wanted to deal with, especially since Piper
and she were armed only with daggers.
Piper raised her hands in a placating gesture. "Octavian, what happened at
camp was a setup. We can explain."
"Can't hear you!" Octavian yelled. "Wax in our ears-standard procedure
when battling evil sirens. Now, throw down your weapons and turn around
slowly so I can bind your hands."
"Let me skewer him," Hazel muttered. "Please."
The ship was only fifty feet away, but Annabeth saw no sign of Coach Hedge

on deck. He was probably below, watching his stupid martial arts programs.
Jason's group wasn't due back until sunset, and Percy would be underwater,
unaware of the invasion. If Annabeth could get on board, she could use the
ballistae; but there was no way to get around these three Romans.
She was running out of time. The eagles circled overhead, crying out as if to
alert their brethren: Hey, some tasty Greek demigods over here! Annabeth
couldn't see the flying chariot anymore, but she assumed it was close by. She
had to figure out something before more Romans arrived.
She needed help_some kind of distress signal to Coach Hedge, or even
better-Percy.
"Well?" Octavian demanded. His two friends brandished their swords.
Very slowly, using only two fingers, Annabeth drew her dagger. Instead of
dropping it, she tossed it as far as she could into the water.
Octavian made a squeaking sound. "What was that for? I didn't say toss it!
That could've been evidence. Or spoils of war!"
Annabeth tried for a dumb-blonde smile, like: Oh, silly me. Nobody who
knew her would have been fooled. But Octavian seemed to buy it. He huffed in
exasperation.
"You other two_" He pointed his blade at Hazel and Piper. "Put your
weapons on the dock. No funny bus-"
All around the Romans, Charleston Harbor erupted like a Las Vegas fountain
putting on a show. When the wall of seawater subsided, the three Romans were
in the bay, spluttering and frantically trying to stay afloat in their armor. Percy
stood on the dock, holding Annabeth's dagger.
"You dropped this," he said, totally poker-faced.
Annabeth threw her arms around him. "I love you!"
"Guys," Hazel interrupted. She had a little smile on her face. "We need to
hurry."
Down in the water, Octavian yelled, "Get me out of here! I'll kill you!"
"Tempting," Percy called down.
"What?" Octavian shouted. He was holding on to one of his guards, who was
having trouble keeping them both afloat.

"Nothing!" Percy shouted back. "Let's go, guys."
Hazel frowned. "We can't let them drown, can we?"
"They won't," Percy promised. "I've got the water circulating around their
feet. As soon as we're out of range, I'll spit them ashore."
Piper grinned. "Nice."
They climbed aboard the Argo II, and Annabeth ran to the helm. "Piper, get
below. Use the sink in the galley for an Iris-message. Warn Jason to get back
here!"
Piper nodded and raced off.
"Hazel, go find Coach Hedge and tell him to get his furry hindquarters on
deck!"
"Right!"
"And Percy-you and I need to get this ship to Fort Sumter."
Percy nodded and ran to the mast. Annabeth took the helm. Her hands flew
across the controls. She'd just have to hope she knew enough to operate them.
Annabeth had seen Percy control full-sized sailing ships before with only his
willpower. This time, he didn't disappoint. Ropes flew on their own-releasing
the dock ties, weighing the anchor. The sails unfurled and caught the wind.
Meanwhile Annabeth fired the engine. The oars extended with a sound like
machine-gun fire, and the Argo II turned from the dock, heading for the island in
the distance.
The three eagles still circled overhead, but they made no attempt to land on
the ship, probably because Festus the figurehead blew fire whenever they got
close. More eagles were flying in formation toward Fort Sumter-at least a
dozen. If each of them carried a Roman demigod_that was a lot of enemies.
Coach Hedge came pounding up the stairs with Hazel at his hooves.
"Where are they?" he demanded. "Who do I kill?"
"No killing!" Annabeth ordered. "Just defend the ship!"
"But they interrupted a Chuck Norris movie!"
Piper emerged from below. "Got a message through to Jason. Kind of fuzzy,
but he's already on his way. He should be-oh! There!"
Soaring over the city, heading in their direction, was a giant bald eagle,

unlike the golden Roman birds.
"Frank!" Hazel said.
Leo was holding on to the eagle's feet, and even from the ship, Annabeth
could hear him screaming and cursing.
Behind them flew Jason, riding the wind.
"Never seen Jason fly before," Percy grumbled. "He looks like a blond
Superman."
"This isn't the time!" Piper scolded him. "Look, they're in trouble!"
Sure enough, the Roman flying chariot had descended from a cloud and was
diving straight toward them. Jason and Frank veered out of the way, pulling up
to avoid getting trampled by the pegasi. The charioteers fired their bows. Arrows
whistled under Leo's feet, which led to more screaming and cursing. Jason and
Frank were forced to overshoot the Argo II and fly toward Fort Sumter.
"I'll get 'em!" yelled Coach Hedge.
He spun the port ballista. Before Annabeth could yell, "Don't be stupid!"
Hedge fired. A flaming spear rocketed toward the chariot.
It exploded over the heads of the pegasi and threw them into a panic.
Unfortunately it also singed Frank's wings and sent him spiraling out of control.
Leo slipped from his grasp. The chariot shot toward Fort Sumter, slamming into
Jason.
Annabeth watched in horror as Jason-obviously dazed and in pain-lunged
for Leo, caught him, then struggled to gain altitude. He only managed to slow
their fall. They disappeared behind the ramparts of the fort. Frank tumbled after
them. Then the chariot dropped somewhere inside and hit with a bone-shattering
CRACK! One broken wheel spun into the air.
"Coach!" Piper screamed.
"What?" Hedge demanded. "That was just a warning shot!"
Annabeth gunned the engines. The hull shuddered as they picked up speed.
The docks of the island were only a hundred yards away now, but a dozen more
eagles were soaring overhead, each carrying a Roman demigod in its claws.
The Argo II's crew would be outnumbered at least three to one.
"Percy," Annabeth said, "we're going to come in hard. I need you to control

the water so we don't smash into the docks. Once we're there, you're going to
have to hold off the attackers. The rest of you help him guard the ship."
"But-Jason!" Piper said.
"Frank and Leo!" Hazel added.
"I'll find them," Annabeth promised. "I've got to figure out where the map is.
And I'm pretty sure I'm the only one who can do that."
"The fort is crawling with Romans," Percy warned. "You'll have to fight
your way through, find our friends-assuming they're okay-find this map, and
get everybody back alive. All on your own?"
"Just an average day." Annabeth kissed him. "Whatever you do, don't let
them take this ship!"

THE NEW CIVIL WAR HAD BEGUN.
Leo had somehow escaped his fall unharmed. Annabeth saw him ducking
from portico to portico, blasting fire at the giant eagles swooping down on him.
Roman demigods tried to chase him, tripping over piles of cannonballs and
dodging tourists, who screamed and ran in circles.
Tour guides kept yelling, "It's just a reenactment!" Though they didn't sound
sure. The Mist could only do so much to change what mortals saw.
In the middle of the courtyard, a full-grown elephant-could that be Frank?
-rampaged around the flagpoles, scattering Roman warriors. Jason stood about
fifty yards away, sword-fighting with a stocky centurion whose lips were stained
cherry red, like blood. A wannabe vampire, or maybe a Kool-Aid freak?
As Annabeth watched, Jason yelled, "Sorry about this, Dakota!"
He vaulted straight over the centurion's head like an acrobat and slammed the
hilt of his gladius into the back of the Roman's head. Dakota crumpled.
"Jason!" Annabeth called.
He scanned the battlefield until he saw her.
She pointed to where the Argo II was docked. "Get the others aboard!
Retreat!"

"What about you?" he called.
"Don't wait for me!"
Annabeth bolted off before he could protest.
She had a hard time maneuvering through the mobs of tourists. Why did so
many people want to see Fort Sumter on a sweltering summer day? But
Annabeth quickly realized the crowds had saved their lives. Without the chaos of
all these panicked mortals, the Romans would have already surrounded their
outnumbered crew.
Annabeth dodged into a small room that must have been part of the garrison.
She tried to steady her breathing. She imagined what it would have been like to
be a Union soldier on this island in 1861. Surrounded by enemies. Dwindling
food and supplies, no reinforcements coming.
Some of the Union defenders had been children of Athena. They'd hidden an
important map here-something they didn't want falling into enemy hands. If
Annabeth had been one of those demigods, where would she have put it?
Suddenly the walls glistened. The air became warm. Annabeth wondered if
she was hallucinating. She was about to run for the exit when the door slammed
shut. The mortar between the stones blistered. The bubbles popped, and
thousands of tiny black spiders swelled forth.
Annabeth couldn't move. Her heart seemed to have stopped. The spiders
blanketed the walls, crawling over one another, spreading across the floor and
gradually surrounding her. It was impossible. This couldn't be real.
Terror plunged her into memories. She was seven years old again, alone in
her bedroom in Richmond, Virginia. The spiders came at night. They crawled in
waves from her closet and waited in the shadows. She yelled for her father, but
her father was away for work. He always seemed to be away for work.
Her stepmother came instead.
I don't mind being the bad cop, she had once told Annabeth's father, when
she didn't think Annabeth could hear.
It's only your imagination, her stepmother said about the spiders. You're
scaring your baby brothers.
They're not my brothers, Annabeth argued, which made her stepmother's

expression harden. Her eyes were almost as scary as the spiders.
Go to sleep now, her stepmother insisted. No more screaming.
The spiders came back as soon as her stepmother had left the room. Annabeth
tried to hide under the covers, but it was no good. Eventually she fell asleep
from sheer exhaustion. She woke up in the morning, freckled with bites,
cobwebs covering her eyes, her mouth, and nose.
The bites faded before she even got dressed, so she had nothing to show her
stepmother except cobwebs, which her stepmother thought was some sort of
clever trick.
No more talk of spiders, her stepmother said firmly. You're a big girl now.
The second night, the spiders came again. Her stepmother continued to be the
bad cop. Annabeth wasn't allowed to call her father and bother him with this
nonsense. No, he would not come home early.
The third night, Annabeth ran away from home.
Later, at Camp Half-Blood, she learned that all children of Athena feared
spiders. Long ago, Athena had taught the mortal weaver Arachne a hard lesson
-cursing her for her pride by turning her into the first spider. Ever since, spiders
had hated the children of Athena.
But that didn't make her fear easier to deal with. Once, she'd almost killed
Connor Stoll at camp for putting a tarantula in her bunk. Years later, she'd had a
panic attack at a water park in Denver, when Percy and she were assaulted by
mechanical spiders. And the past few weeks, Annabeth had dreamed of spiders
almost every night-crawling over her, suffocating her, wrapping her in webs.
Now, standing in the barracks at Fort Sumter, she was surrounded. Her
nightmares had come true.
A sleepy voice murmured in her head: Soon, my dear. You will meet the
weaver soon.
"Gaea?" Annabeth murmured. She feared the answer, but she asked: "Who-
who is the weaver?"
The spiders became excited, swarming over the walls, swirling around
Annabeth's feet like a glistening black whirlpool. Only the hope that it might be
an illusion kept Annabeth from passing out from fear.

I hope you survive, child, the woman's voice said. I would prefer you as my
sacrifice. But we must let the weaver take her revenge_
Gaea's voice faded. On the far wall, in the center of the spider swarm, a red
symbol blazed to life: the figure of an owl like the one on the silver drachma,
staring straight at Annabeth. Then, just as in her nightmares, the Mark of Athena
burned across the walls, incinerating the spiders until the room was empty
except for the smell of sickly sweet ashes.
Go, said a new voice-Annabeth's mother. Avenge me. Follow the Mark.
The blazing symbol of the owl faded. The garrison door burst open. Annabeth
stood stunned in the middle of the room, unsure whether she'd seen something
real, or just a vision.
An explosion shook the building. Annabeth remembered that her friends were
in danger. She'd stayed here much too long.
She forced herself to move. Still trembling, she stumbled outside. The ocean
air helped clear her mind. She gazed across the courtyard-past the panicked
tourists and fighting demigods-to the edge of the battlements, where a large
mortar pointed out to sea.
It might have been Annabeth's imagination, but the old artillery piece seemed
to be glowing red. She dashed toward it. An eagle swooped at her, but she
ducked and kept running. Nothing could possibly scare her as much as those
spiders.
Roman demigods had formed ranks and were advancing toward the Argo II,
but a miniature storm had gathered over their heads. Though the day was clear
all around them, thunder rumbled, and lightning flashed above the Romans. Rain
and wind pushed them back.
Annabeth didn't stop to think about it.
She reached the mortar and put her hand on the muzzle. On the plug that
blocked the opening, the Mark of Athena began to glow-the red outline of an
owl.
"In the mortar," she said. "Of course."
She pried at the plug with her fingers. No luck. Cursing, she drew her dagger.
As soon as the Celestial bronze touched the plug, the plug shrank and loosened.

Annabeth pulled it off and stuck her hand inside the cannon.
Her fingers touched something cold, smooth, and metal. She pulled out a
small disk of bronze the size of a tea saucer, etched with delicate letters and
illustrations. She decided to examine it later. She thrust it in her pack and turned.
"Rushing off?" Reyna asked.
The praetor stood ten feet away, in full battle armor, holding a golden javelin.
Her two metal greyhounds growled at her side.
Annabeth scanned the area. They were more or less alone. Most of the
combat had moved toward the docks. Hopefully her friends had all made it on
board, but they'd have to set sail immediately or risk being overrun. Annabeth
had to hurry.
"Reyna," she said, "what happened at Camp Jupiter was Gaea's fault.
Eidolons, possessing spirits-"
"Save your explanations," Reyna said. "You'll need them for the trial."
The dogs snarled and inched forward. This time, it didn't seem to matter to
them that Annabeth was telling the truth. She tried to think of an escape plan.
She doubted she could take Reyna in one-on-one combat. With those metal dogs,
she stood no chance at all.
"If you let Gaea drive our camps apart," Annabeth said, "the giants have
already won. They'll destroy the Romans, the Greeks, the gods, the whole mortal
world."
"Don't you think I know that?" Reyna's voice was as hard as iron. "What
choice have you left me? Octavian smells blood. He's whipped the legion into a
frenzy, and I can't stop it. Surrender to me. I'll bring you back to New Rome for
trial. It won't be fair. You'll be painfully executed. But it may be enough to stop
further violence. Octavian won't be satisfied, of course, but I think I can
convince the others to stand down."
"It wasn't me!"
"It doesn't matter!" Reyna snapped. "Someone must pay for what happened.
Let it be you. It's the better option."
Annabeth's skin crawled. "Better than what?"
"Use that wisdom of yours," Reyna said. "If you escape today, we won't

follow. I told you-not even a madman would cross the sea to the ancient lands.
If Octavian can't have vengeance on your ship, he'll turn his attention to Camp
Half-Blood. The legion will march on your territory. We will raze it and salt the
earth."
Kill the Romans, she heard her mother urging. They can never be your allies.
Annabeth wanted to sob. Camp Half-Blood was the only real home she'd
ever known, and in a bid for friendship, she had told Reyna exactly where to find
it. She couldn't leave it at the mercy of the Romans and travel halfway around
the world.
But their quest, and everything she'd suffered to get Percy back_if she
didn't go to the ancient lands, it would all mean nothing. Besides, the Mark of
Athena didn't have to lead to revenge.
If I could find the route, her mother had said, the way home_
How will you use your reward? Aphrodite had asked. For war or peace?
There was an answer. The Mark of Athena could lead her there-if she
survived.
"I'm going," she told Reyna. "I'm following the Mark of Athena to Rome."
The praetor shook her head. "You have no idea what awaits you."
"Yes, I do," Annabeth said. "This grudge between our camps_I can fix it."
"Our grudge is thousands of years old. How can one person fix it?"
Annabeth wished she could give a convincing answer, show Reyna a 3-D
diagram or a brilliant schematic, but she couldn't. She just knew she had to try.
She remembered that lost look on her mother's face: I must return home.
"The quest has to succeed," she said. "You can try to stop me, in which case
we'll have to fight to the death. Or you can let me go, and I'll try to save both
our camps. If you must march on Camp Half-Blood, at least try to delay. Slow
Octavian down."
Reyna's eyes narrowed. "One daughter of a war goddess to another, I respect
your boldness. But if you leave now, you doom your camp to destruction."
"Don't underestimate Camp Half-Blood," Annabeth warned.
"You've never seen the legion at war," Reyna countered.
Over by the docks, a familiar voice shrieked over the wind: "Kill them! Kill

them all!"
Octavian had survived his swim in the harbor. He crouched behind his
guards, screaming encouragement at the other Roman demigods as they
struggled toward the ship, holding up their shields as if that would deflect the
storm raging all around them.
On the deck of the Argo II, Percy and Jason stood together, their swords
crossed. Annabeth got a tingle down her spine as she realized the boys were
working as one, summoning the sky and the sea to do their bidding. Water and
wind churned together. Waves heaved against the ramparts and lightning
flashed. Giant eagles were knocked out of the sky. Wreckage of the flying
chariot burned in the water, and Coach Hedge swung a mounted crossbow,
taking potshots at the Roman birds as they flew overhead.
"You see?" Reyna said bitterly. "The spear is thrown. Our people are at war."
"Not if I succeed," Annabeth said.
Reyna's expression looked the same as it had at Camp Jupiter when she
realized Jason had found another girl. The praetor was too alone, too bitter and
betrayed to believe anything could go right for her ever again. Annabeth waited
for her to attack.
Instead, Reyna flicked her hand. The metal dogs backed away. "Annabeth
Chase," she said, "when we meet again, we will be enemies on the field of
battle."
The praetor turned and walked across the ramparts, her greyhounds behind
her.
Annabeth feared it might be some sort of trick, but she had no time to
wonder. She ran for the ship.
The winds that battered the Romans didn't seem to affect her.
Annabeth sprinted through their lines. Octavian yelled, "Stop her!"
A spear flew past her ear. The Argo II was already pulling away from the
dock. Piper was at the gangplank, her hand outstretched.
Annabeth leaped and grabbed Piper's hand. The gangplank fell into the sea,
and the two girls tumbled onto the deck.
"Go!" Annabeth screamed. "Go, go, go!"

The engines rumbled beneath her. The oars churned. Jason changed the
course of the wind, and Percy called up a massive wave, which lifted the ship
higher than the fort's walls and pushed it out to sea. By the time the Argo II
reached top speed, Fort Sumter was only a blot in the distance, and they were
racing across the waves toward the ancient lands.

AFTER RAIDING A MUSEUM FULL OF Confederate ghosts, Leo didn't think his day
could get any worse. He was wrong.
They hadn't found anything in the Civil War sub or elsewhere in the
museum; just a few elderly tourists, a dozing security guard, and-when they
tried to inspect the artifacts-a whole battalion of glowing zombie dudes in gray
uniforms.
The idea that Frank should be able to control the spirits? Yeah_that pretty
much failed. By the time Piper sent her Iris-message warning them about the
Roman attack, they were already halfway back to the ship, having been chased
through downtown Charleston by a pack of angry dead Confederates.
Then-oh, boy!-Leo got to hitch a ride with Frank the Friendly Eagle so
they could fight a bunch of Romans. Rumor must've gotten around that Leo was
the one who had fired on their little city, because those Romans seemed
especially anxious to kill him.
But wait! There was more! Coach Hedge shot them out of the sky; Frank
dropped him (that was no accident); and they crash-landed in Fort Sumter.
Now, as the Argo II raced across the waves, Leo had to use all his skill just to
keep the ship in one piece. Percy and Jason were a little too good at cooking up

massive storms.
At one point, Annabeth stood next to him, yelling against the roar of the
wind: "Percy says he talked to a Nereid in Charleston Harbor!"
"Good for him!" Leo yelled back.
"The Nereid said we should seek help from Chiron's brothers."
"What does that mean? The Party Ponies?" Leo had never met Chiron's crazy
centaur relatives, but he'd heard rumors of Nerf sword-fights, root beer-
chugging contests, and Super Soakers filled with pressurized whipped cream.
"Not sure," Annabeth said. "But I've got coordinates. Can you input latitude
and longitude in this thing?"
"I can input star charts and order you a smoothie, if you want. Of course I can
do latitude and longitude!"
Annabeth rattled off the numbers. Leo somehow managed to punch them in
while holding the wheel with one hand. A red dot popped up on the bronze
display screen.
"That location is in the middle of the Atlantic," he said. "Do the Party Ponies
have a yacht?"
Annabeth shrugged helplessly. "Just hold the ship together until we get
farther from Charleston. Jason and Percy will keep up the winds!"
"Happy fun time!"
It seemed like forever, but finally the sea calmed and the winds died.
"Valdez," said Coach Hedge, with surprising gentleness. "Let me take the
wheel. You've been steering for two hours."
"Two hours?"
"Yeah. Give me the wheel."
"Coach?"
"Yeah, kid?"
"I can't unclench my hands."
It was true. Leo's fingers felt like they had turned to stone. His eyes burned
from staring at the horizon. His knees were marshmallows. Coach Hedge
managed to pry him from the wheel.
Leo took one last look at the console, listening to Festus chatter and whir a

status report. Leo felt like he was forgetting something. He stared at the controls,
trying to think, but it was no good. His eyes could hardly focus. "Just watch for
monsters," he told the coach. "And be careful with the damaged stabilizer. And
-"
"I've got it covered," Coach Hedge promised. "Now, go away!"
Leo nodded wearily. He staggered across the deck toward his friends.
Percy and Jason sat with their backs against the mast, their heads slumped in
exhaustion. Annabeth and Piper were trying to get them to drink some water.
Hazel and Frank stood just out of earshot, having an argument that involved
lots of arm waving and head shaking. Leo should not have felt pleased about
that, but part of him did. The other part of him felt bad that he felt pleased.
The argument stopped abruptly when Hazel saw Leo. Everybody gathered at
the mast.
Frank scowled like he was trying hard to turn into a bulldog. "No sign of
pursuit," he said.
"Or land," Hazel added. She looked a little green, though Leo wasn't sure if
that was from the rocking of the boat or from arguing.
Leo scanned the horizon. Nothing but ocean in every direction. That
shouldn't have surprised him. He'd spent six months building a ship that he
knew would cross the Atlantic. But until today, their embarking on a journey to
the ancient lands hadn't seemed real. Leo had never been outside the U.S. before
-except for a quick dragon flight up to Quebec. Now they were in the middle of
the open sea, completely on their own, sailing to the Mare Nostrum, where all
the scary monsters and nasty giants had come from. The Romans might not
follow them, but they couldn't count on any help from Camp Half-Blood, either.
Leo patted his waist to make sure his tool belt was still there. Unfortunately
that just reminded him of Nemesis's fortune cookie, tucked inside one of the
pockets.
You will always be an outsider. The goddess's voice still wriggled around in
his head. The seventh wheel.
Forget her, Leo told himself. Concentrate on the stuff you can fix.
He turned to Annabeth. "Did you find the map you wanted?"

She nodded, though she looked pale. Leo wondered what she'd seen at Fort
Sumter that could have shaken her up so badly.
"I'll have to study it," she said, as if that was the end of the subject. "How far
are we from those coordinates?"
"At top rowing speed, about an hour," Leo said. "Any idea what we're
looking for?"
"No," she admitted. "Percy?"
Percy raised his head. His green eyes were bloodshot and droopy. "The
Nereid said Chiron's brothers were there, and they'd want to hear about that
aquarium in Atlanta. I don't know what she meant, but_" He paused, like he'd
used up all his energy saying that much. "She also warned me to be careful.
Keto, the goddess at the aquarium: she's the mother of sea monsters. She might
be stuck in Atlanta, but she can still send her children after us. The Nereid said
we should expect an attack."
"Wonderful," Frank muttered.
Jason tried to stand, which wasn't a good idea. Piper grabbed him to keep
him from falling over, and he slid back down the mast.
"Can we get the ship aloft?" he asked. "If we could fly-"
"That'd be great," Leo said. "Except Festus tells me the port aerial stabilizer
got pulverized when the ship raked against the dock at Fort Sumter."
"We were in a hurry," Annabeth said. "Trying to save you."
"And saving me is a very noble cause," Leo agreed. "I'm just saying, it'll
take some time to fix. Until then, we're not flying anywhere."
Percy flexed his shoulders and winced. "Fine with me. The sea is good."
"Speak for yourself." Hazel glanced at the evening sun, which was almost to
the horizon. "We need to go fast. We've burned another day, and Nico only has
three more left."
"We can do it," Leo promised. He hoped Hazel had forgiven him for not
trusting her brother (hey, it had seemed like a reasonable suspicion to Leo), but
he didn't want to reopen that wound. "We can make it to Rome in three days-
assuming, you know, nothing unexpected happens."
Frank grunted. He looked like he was still working on that bulldog

transformation. "Is there any good news?"
"Actually, yes," Leo said. "According to Festus, our flying table, Buford,
made it back safely while we were in Charleston, so those eagles didn't get him.
Unfortunately, he lost the laundry bag with your pants."
"Dang it!" Frank barked, which Leo figured was probably severe profanity
for him.
No doubt Frank would've cursed some more-busting out the golly gees and
the gosh darns-but Percy interrupted by doubling over and groaning.
"Did the world just turn upside down?" he asked.
Jason pressed his hands to his head. "Yeah, and it's spinning. Everything is
yellow. Is it supposed to be yellow?"
Annabeth and Piper exchanged concerned looks.
"Summoning that storm really sapped your strength," Piper told the boys.
"You've got to rest."
Annabeth nodded agreement. "Frank, can you help us get the guys
belowdecks?"
Frank glanced at Leo, no doubt reluctant to leave him alone with Hazel.
"It's fine, man," Leo said. "Just try not to drop them on the way down the
stairs."
Once the others were below, Hazel and Leo faced each other awkwardly.
They were alone except for Coach Hedge, who was back on the quarterdeck
singing the Pokemon theme song. The coach had changed the words to: Gotta
Kill 'Em All, and Leo really didn't want to know why.
The song didn't seem to help Hazel's nausea.
"Ugh_" She leaned over and hugged her sides. She had nice hair-frizzy
and golden brown like curls of cinnamon. Her hair reminded Leo of a place in
Houston that made excellent churros. The thought made him hungry.
"Don't lean over," he advised. "Don't close your eyes. It makes the
queasiness worse."
"It does? Do you get seasick too?"
"Not seasick. But cars make me nauseous, and_"
He stopped himself. He wanted to say talking to girls, but he decided to keep

that to himself.
"Cars?" Hazel straightened with difficulty. "You can sail a ship or fly a
dragon, but cars make you sick?"
"I know, right?" Leo shrugged. "I'm special that way. Look, keep your eyes
on the horizon. That's a fixed point. It'll help."
Hazel took a deep breath and stared into the distance. Her eyes were lustrous
gold, like the copper and bronze disks inside Festus's mechanical head.
"Any better?" he asked.
"Maybe a little." She sounded like she was just being polite. She kept her
eyes on the horizon, but Leo got the feeling she was gauging his mood,
considering what to say.
"Frank didn't drop you on purpose," she said. "He's not like that. He's just a
little clumsy sometimes."
"Oops," Leo said, in his best Frank Zhang voice. "Dropped Leo into a squad
of enemy soldiers. Dang it!"
Hazel tried to suppress a smile. Leo figured smiling was better than throwing
up.
"Go easy on him," Hazel said. "You and your fireballs make Frank nervous."
"The guy can turn into an elephant, and I make him nervous?"
Hazel kept her eyes on the horizon. She didn't look quite so queasy, despite
the fact that Coach Hedge was still singing his Pokemon song at the helm.
"Leo," she said, "about what happened at the Great Salt Lake_"
Here it comes, Leo thought.
He remembered their meeting with the revenge goddess Nemesis. The fortune
cookie in his tool belt started to feel heavier. Last night, as they flew from
Atlanta, Leo had lain in his cabin and thought about how angry he'd made
Hazel. He had thought about ways he could make it right.
Soon you will face a problem you cannot solve, Nemesis had said, though I
could help you_for a price.
Leo had taken the fortune cookie out of his tool belt and turned it in his
fingers, wondering what price he would have to pay if he broke it open.
Maybe now was the moment.

"I'd be willing," he told Hazel. "I could use the fortune cookie to find your
brother."
Hazel looked stunned. "What? No! I mean_I'd never ask you to do that. Not
after what Nemesis said about the horrible cost. We barely know each other!"
The barely know each other comment kind of hurt, though Leo knew it was
true.
"So_that's not what you wanted to talk about?" he asked. "Uh, did you want
to talk about the holding-hands-on-the-boulder moment? Because-"
"No!" she said quickly, fanning her face in that cute way she did when she
was flustered. "No, I was just thinking about the way you tricked Narcissus and
those nymphs_"
"Oh, right." Leo glanced self-consciously at his arm. The HOT STUFF tattoo
hadn't completely faded. "Seemed like a good idea at the time."
"You were amazing," Hazel said. "I've been mulling it over, how much you
reminded me of-"
"Sammy," Leo guessed. "I wish you'd tell me who he is."
"Who he was," Hazel corrected. The evening air was warm, but she shivered.
"I've been thinking_I might be able to show you."
"You mean like a photo?"
"No. There's a sort of flashback that happens to me. I haven't had one in a
long time, and I've never tried to make one happen on purpose. But I shared one
with Frank once, so I thought_"
Hazel locked eyes with him. Leo started to feel jittery, like he'd been injected
with coffee. If this flashback was something Frank had shared with Hazel_well,
either Leo didn't want any part of it, or he definitely wanted to try it. He wasn't
sure which.
"When you say flashback_" He swallowed. "What exactly are we talking
about? Is it safe?"
Hazel held out her hand. "I wouldn't ask you to do this, but I'm sure it's
important. It can't be a coincidence we met. If this works, maybe we can finally
understand how we're connected."
Leo glanced back at the helm. He still had a nagging suspicion he'd forgotten

something, but Coach Hedge seemed to be doing fine. The sky ahead was clear.
There was no sign of trouble.
Besides, a flashback sounded like a pretty brief thing. It couldn't hurt to let
the coach be in charge for a few more minutes, could it?
"Okay," he relented. "Show me."
He took Hazel's hand, and the world dissolved.

THEY STOOD IN THE COURTYARD of an old compound, like a monastery. Red brick
walls were overgrown with vines. Big magnolia trees had cracked the pavement.
The sun beat down, and the humidity was about two hundred percent, even
stickier than in Houston. Somewhere nearby, Leo smelled fish frying. Overhead,
the cloud cover was low and gray, striped like a tiger's pelt.
The courtyard was about the size of a basketball court. An old deflated
football sat in one corner, at the base of a Virgin Mary statue.
Along the sides of the buildings, windows were open. Leo could see flickers
of movement inside, but it was eerily quiet. He saw no sign of air conditioning,
which meant it must have been a thousand degrees in there.
"Where are we?" he asked.
"My old school," Hazel said next to him. "St. Agnes Academy for Colored
Children and Indians."
"What kind of name-?"
He turned toward Hazel and yelped. She was a ghost-just a vaporous
silhouette in the steamy air. Leo looked down and realized his own body had
turned to mist too.
Everything around him seemed solid and real, but he was a spirit. After

having been possessed by an eidolon three days ago, he didn't appreciate the
feeling.
Before he could ask questions, a bell rang inside: not a modern electronic
sound, but the old-fashioned buzz of a hammer on metal.
"This is a memory," Hazel said, "so no one will see us. Look, here we come."
"We?"
From every door, dozens of children spilled into the courtyard, yelling and
jostling each other. They were mostly African American, with a sprinkling of
Hispanic-looking kids, as young as kindergartners and as old as high schoolers.
Leo could tell this was in the past, because all the girls wore dresses and buckled
leather shoes. The boys wore white collared shirts and pants held up by
suspenders. Many wore caps like horse jockeys wear. Some kids carried lunches.
Many didn't. Their clothes were clean, but worn and faded. Some had holes in
the knees of their trousers, or shoes with the heels coming apart.
A few of the girls began playing jump rope with an old piece of clothesline.
The older guys tossed a ratty baseball back and forth. Kids with lunches sat
together and ate and chatted.
No one paid Ghost Hazel or Leo any attention.
Then Hazel-Hazel from the past-stepped into the courtyard. Leo
recognized her with no problem, though she looked about two years younger
than now. Her hair was pinned back in a bun. Her gold eyes darted around the
courtyard uneasily. She wore a dark dress, unlike the other girls in their white
cotton or pastel flowery prints, so she stood out like a mourner at a wedding.
She gripped a canvas lunch bag and moved along the wall, as if trying hard
not to be noticed.
It didn't work. A boy called out, "Witch girl!" He lumbered toward her,
backing her into a corner. The boy could have been fourteen or nineteen. It was
hard to tell because he was so big and tall, easily the largest guy on the
playground. Leo figured he'd been held back a few times. He wore a dirty shirt
the color of grease rags, threadbare wool trousers (in this heat, they couldn't
have been comfortable), and no shoes at all. Maybe the teachers were too
terrified to insist that this kid wear shoes, or maybe he just didn't have any.

"That's Rufus," said Ghost Hazel with distaste.
"Seriously? No way his name is Rufus," Leo said.
"Come on," said Ghost Hazel. She drifted toward the confrontation. Leo
followed. He wasn't used to drifting, but he'd ridden a Segway once and it was
kind of like that. He simply leaned in the direction he wanted to go and glided
along.
The big kid Rufus had flat features, as if he spent most of his time faceplanting on the sidewalk. His hair was cut just as flat on top, so miniature
airplanes could've used it for a landing strip.
Rufus thrust out his hand. "Lunch."
Hazel from the past didn't protest. She handed over her canvas bag like this
was an everyday occurrence.
A few older girls drifted over to watch the fun. One giggled at Rufus. "You
don't want to eat that," she warned. "It's probably poison."
"You're right," Rufus said. "Did your witch mom make this, Levesque?"
"She's not a witch," Hazel muttered.
Rufus dropped the bag and stepped on it, smashing the contents under his
bare heel. "You can have it back. I want a diamond, though. I hear your momma
can make those out of thin air. Gimme a diamond."
"I don't have diamonds," Hazel said. "Go away."
Rufus balled his fists. Leo had been in enough rough schools and foster
homes to sense when things were about to turn ugly. He wanted to step in and
help Hazel, but he was a ghost. Besides, all this had happened decades ago.
Then another kid stumbled outside into the sunlight.
Leo sucked in his breath. The boy looked exactly like him.
"You see?" asked Ghost Hazel.
Fake Leo was the same height as Regular Leo-meaning he was short. He
had the same nervous energy-tapping his fingers against his trousers, brushing
at his white cotton shirt, adjusting the jockey cap on his curly brown hair.
(Really, Leo thought, short people should not wear jockey caps unless they were
jockeys.) Fake Leo had the same devilish smile that greeted Regular Leo
whenever he looked in a mirror-an expression that made teachers immediately

shout, "Don't even think about it!" and plop him in the front row.
Apparently, Fake Leo had just been scolded by a teacher. He was holding a
dunce cap-an honest-to-goodness cardboard cone that said DUNCE. Leo thought
those were something you only saw in cartoons.
He could understand why Fake Leo wasn't wearing it. Bad enough to look
like a jockey. With that cone on his head, he would've looked like a gnome.
Some kids backed up when Fake Leo burst onto the scene. Others nudged
each other and ran toward him like they were expecting a show.
Meanwhile, Flathead Rufus was still trying to punk Hazel out of a diamond,
oblivious to Fake Leo's arrival.
"Come on, girl." Rufus loomed over Hazel with his fists clenched. "Give it!"
Hazel pressed herself against the wall. Suddenly the ground at her feet went
snap, like a twig breaking. A perfect diamond the size of a pistachio glittered
between her feet.
"Ha!" Rufus barked when he saw it. He started to lean down, but Hazel
yelped, "No, please!" as if she was genuinely concerned for the big goon.
That's when Fake Leo strolled over.
Here it comes, Leo thought. Fake Leo is gonna bust out some Coach Hedge-
style jujitsu and save the day.
Instead, Fake Leo put the top of the dunce cap to his mouth like a megaphone
and yelled, "CUT!"
He said it with such authority all the other kids momentarily froze. Even
Rufus straightened and backed away in confusion.
One of the little boys snickered under his breath: "Hammy Sammy."
Sammy_ Leo shivered. Who the heck was this kid?
Sammy/Fake Leo stormed up to Rufus with his dunce cap in his hand,
looking angry. "No, no, no!" he announced, waving his free hand wildly at the
other kids, who were gathering to watch the entertainment.
Sammy turned to Hazel. "Miss Lamarr, your line is_" Sammy looked
around in exasperation. "Script! What is Hedy Lamarr's line?"
"'No, please, you villain!'" one of the boys called out.
"Thank you!" Sammy said. "Miss Lamarr, you're supposed to say, No,

please, you villain! And you, Clark Gable-"
The whole courtyard burst into laughter. Leo vaguely knew Clark Gable was
an old-timey actor, but he didn't know much else. Apparently, though, the idea
that Flathead Rufus could be Clark Gable was hilarious to the kids.
"Mr. Gable-"
"No!" one of the girls cried. "Make him Gary Cooper."
More laughter. Rufus looked as if he were about to blow a valve. He balled
his fists like he wanted to hit somebody, but he couldn't attack the entire school.
He clearly hated being laughed at, but his slow little mind couldn't quite work
out what Sammy was up to.
Leo nodded in appreciation. Sammy was like him. Leo had done the same
kind of stuff to bullies for years.
"Right!" Sammy yelled imperiously. "Mr. Cooper, you say, Oh, but the
diamond is mine, my treacherous darling! And then you scoop up the diamond
like this!"
"Sammy, no!" Hazel protested, but Sammy snatched up the stone and slipped
it into his pocket in one smooth move.
He wheeled on Rufus. "I want emotion! I want the ladies in the audience
swooning! Ladies, did Mr. Cooper make you swoon just now?"
"No," several of them called back.
"There, you see?" Sammy cried. "Now, from the top!" he yelled into his
dunce cap. "Action!"
Rufus was just starting to get over his confusion. He stepped toward Sammy
and said, "Valdez, I'm gonna-"
The bell rang. Kids swarmed the doors. Sammy pulled Hazel out of the way
as the little ones-who acted like they were on Sammy's payroll-herded Rufus
along with them so he was carried inside on a tide of kindergartners.
Soon Sammy and Hazel were alone except for the ghosts.
Sammy scooped up Hazel's smashed lunch, made a show of dusting off the
canvas bag, and presented it to her with a deep bow, as if it were her crown.
"Miss Lamarr."
Hazel from the past took her ruined lunch. She looked like she was about to

cry, but Leo couldn't tell if that was from relief or misery or admiration.
"Sammy_Rufus is going to kill you."
"Ah, he knows better than to tangle with me." Sammy plopped the dunce cap
on top of his jockey cap. He stood up straight and stuck out his scrawny chest.
The dunce cap fell off.
Hazel laughed. "You are ridiculous."
"Why, thank you, Miss Lamarr."
"You're welcome, my treacherous darling."
Sammy's smile wavered. The air became uncomfortably charged. Hazel
stared at the ground. "You shouldn't have touched that diamond. It's
dangerous."
"Ah, come on," Sammy said. "Not for me!"
Hazel studied him warily, like she wanted to believe it. "Bad things might
happen. You shouldn't-"
"I won't sell it," Sammy said. "I promise! I'll just keep it as a token of your
flavor."
Hazel forced a smile. "I think you mean token of my favor."
"There you are! We should get going. It's time for our next scene: Hedy
Lamarr nearly dies of boredom in English class."
Sammy held out his elbow like a gentleman, but Hazel pushed him away
playfully. "Thanks for being there, Sammy."
"Miss Lamarr, I will always be there for you!" he said brightly. The two of
them raced back into the schoolhouse.
Leo felt more like a ghost than ever. Maybe he had actually been an eidolon
his whole life, because this kid he'd just seen should have been the real Leo. He
was smarter, cooler, and funnier. He flirted so well with Hazel that he had
obviously stolen her heart.
No wonder Hazel had looked at Leo so strangely when they first met. No
wonder she had said Sammy with so much feeling. But Leo wasn't Sammy, any
more than Flathead Rufus was Clark Gable.
"Hazel," he said. "I-I don't-"
The schoolyard dissolved into a different scene.

Hazel and Leo were still ghosts, but now they stood in front of a rundown
house next to a drainage ditch overgrown with weeds. A clump of banana trees
drooped in the yard. Perched on the steps, an old-fashioned radio played
conjunto music, and on the shaded porch, sitting in a rocking chair, a skinny old
man gazed at the horizon.
"Where are we?" Hazel asked. She was still only vapor, but her voice was
full of alarm. "This isn't from my life!"
Leo felt as if his ghostly self was thickening, becoming more real. This place
seemed strangely familiar.
"It's Houston," he realized. "I know this view. That drainage ditch_This is
my mom's old neighborhood, where she grew up. Hobby Airport is over that
way."
"This is your life?" Hazel said. "I don't understand! How-?"
"You're asking me?" Leo demanded.
Suddenly the old man murmured, "Ah, Hazel_"
A shock went up Leo's spine. The old man's eyes were still fixed on the
horizon. How did he know they were here?
"I guess we ran out of time," the old man continued dreamily. "Well_"
He didn't finish the thought.
Hazel and Leo stayed very still. The old man made no further sign that he
saw them or heard them. It dawned on Leo that the guy had been talking to
himself. But then why had he said Hazel's name?
He had leathery skin, curly white hair, and gnarled hands, like he'd spent a
lifetime working in a machine shop. He wore a pale yellow shirt, spotless and
clean, with gray slacks and suspenders and polished black shoes.
Despite his age, his eyes were sharp and clear. He sat with a kind of quiet
dignity. He looked at peace-amused, even, like he was thinking, Dang, I lived
this long? Cool!
Leo was pretty sure he had never seen this man before. So why did he seem
familiar? Then he realized the man was tapping his fingers on the arm of his
chair, but the tapping wasn't random. He was using Morse code, just like Leo's
mother used to do with him_and the old man was tapping the same message: I

love you.
The screen door opened. A young woman came out. She wore jeans and a
turquoise blouse. Her hair was cut in a short black wedge. She was pretty, but
not delicate. She had well-muscled arms and calloused hands. Like the old
man's, her brown eyes glinted with amusement. In her arms was a baby,
wrapped in a blue blanket.
"Look, mijo," she said to the baby. "This is your bisabuelo. Bisabuelo, you
want to hold him?"
When Leo heard her voice, he sobbed.
It was his mother-younger than he remembered her, but very much alive.
That meant the baby in her arms_
The old man broke into a huge grin. He had perfect teeth, as white as his hair.
His face crinkled with smile lines. "A boy! Mi bebito, Leo!"
"Leo?" Hazel whispered. "That-that's you? What is bisabuelo?"
Leo couldn't find his voice. Great-grandfather, he wanted to say.
The old man took baby Leo in his arms, chuckling with appreciation and
tickling the baby's chin-and Ghost Leo finally realized what he was seeing.
Somehow, Hazel's power to revisit the past had found the one event that
connected both of their lives-where Leo's time line touched Hazel's.
This old man_
"Oh_" Hazel seemed to realize who he was at the same moment. Her voice
became very small, on the verge of tears. "Oh, Sammy, no_"
"Ah, little Leo," said Sammy Valdez, aged well into his seventies. "You'll
have to be my stunt double, eh? That's what they call it, I think. Tell her for me.
I hoped I would be alive, but, ay, the curse won't have it!"
Hazel sobbed. "Gaea_Gaea told me that he died of a heart attack, in the
1960s. But this isn't-this can't be_"
Sammy Valdez kept talking to the baby, while Leo's mother, Esperanza,
looked on with a pained smile-perhaps a little worried that Leo's bisabuelo was
rambling, a little sad that he was speaking nonsense.
"That lady, Dona Callida, she warned me." Sammy shook his head sadly.
"She said Hazel's great danger would not happen in my lifetime. But I promised

I would be there for her. You will have to tell her I'm sorry, Leo. Help her if you
can."
"Bisabeulo," Esperanza said, "you must be tired."
She extended her arms to take the baby, but the old man cuddled him a
moment longer. Baby Leo seemed perfectly fine with it.
"Tell her I'm sorry I sold the diamond, eh?" Sammy said. "I broke my
promise. When she disappeared in Alaska_ah, so long ago, I finally used that
diamond, moved to Texas as I always dreamed. I started my machine shop.
Started my family! It was a good life, but Hazel was right. The diamond came
with a curse. I never saw her again."
"Oh, Sammy," Hazel said. "No, a curse didn't keep me away. I wanted to
come back. I died!"
The old man didn't seem to hear. He smiled down at the baby, and kissed him
on the head. "I give you my blessing, Leo. First male great-grandchild! I have a
feeling you are special, like Hazel was. You are more than a regular baby, eh?
You will carry on for me. You will see her someday. Tell her hello for me."
"Bisabuelo," Esperanza said, a little more insistently.
"Yes, yes." Sammy chuckled. "El viejo loco rambles on. I am tired,
Esperanza. You are right. But I'll rest soon. It's been a good life. Raise him well,
nieta."
The scene faded.
Leo was standing on the deck of the Argo II, holding Hazel's hand. The sun
had gone down, and the ship was lit only by bronze lanterns. Hazel's eyes were
puffy from crying.
What they'd seen was too much. The whole ocean heaved under them, and
now for the first time Leo felt as if they were totally adrift.
"Hello, Hazel Levesque," he said, his voice gravelly.
Her chin trembled. She turned away and opened her mouth to speak, but
before she could, the ship lurched to one side.
"Leo!" Coach Hedge yelled.
Festus whirred in alarm and blew flames into the night sky. The ship's bell
rang.

"Those monsters you were worried about?" Hedge shouted. "One of 'em
found us!"

LEO DESERVED A DUNCE CAP.
If he'd been thinking straight, he would've switched the ship's detection
system from radar to sonar as soon as they left Charleston Harbor. That's what
he had forgotten. He'd designed the hull to resonate every few seconds, sending
waves through the Mist and alerting Festus to any nearby monsters, but it only
worked in one mode at a time: water or air.
He'd been so rattled by the Romans, then the storm, then Hazel, that he had
completely forgotten. Now, a monster was right underneath them.
The ship tilted to starboard. Hazel gripped the rigging. Hedge yelled,
"Valdez, which button blows up monsters? Take the helm!"
Leo climbed the tilting deck and managed to grab the port rail. He started
clambering sideways toward the helm, but when he saw the monster surface, he
forgot how to move.
The thing was the length of their ship. In the moonlight, it looked like a cross
between a giant shrimp and a cockroach, with a pink chitinous shell, a flat
crayfish tail, and millipede-type legs undulating hypnotically as the monster
scraped against the hull of the Argo II.
Its head surfaced last-the slimy pink face of an enormous catfish with glassy

dead eyes, a gaping toothless maw, and a forest of tentacles sprouting from each
nostril, making the bushiest nose beard Leo had ever had the displeasure to
behold.
Leo remembered special Friday night dinners he and his mom used to share at
a local seafood restaurant in Houston. They would eat shrimp and catfish. The
idea now made him want to throw up.
"Come on, Valdez!" Hedge yelled. "Take the wheel so I can get my baseball
bat!"
"A bat's not going to help," Leo said, but he made his way toward the helm.
Behind him, the rest of his friends stumbled up the stairs.
Percy yelled, "What's going- Gah! Shrimpzilla!"
Frank ran to Hazel's side. She was clutching the rigging, still dazed from her
flashback, but she gestured that she was all right.
The monster rammed the ship again. The hull groaned. Annabeth, Piper, and
Jason tumbled to starboard and almost rolled overboard.
Leo reached the helm. His hands flew across the controls. Over the intercom,
Festus clacked and clicked about leaks belowdecks, but the ship didn't seem to
be in danger of sinking-at least not yet.
Leo toggled the oars. They could convert into spears, which should be
enough to drive the creature away. Unfortunately, they were jammed.
Shrimpzilla must have knocked them out of alignment, and the monster was in
spitting distance, which meant that Leo couldn't use the ballistae without setting
the Argo II on fire as well.
"How did it get so close?" Annabeth shouted, pulling herself up on one of the
rail shields.
"I don't know!" Hedge snarled. He looked around for his bat, which had
rolled across the quarterdeck.
"I'm stupid!" Leo scolded himself. "Stupid, stupid! I forgot the sonar!"
The ship tilted farther to starboard. Either the monster was trying to give
them a hug, or it was about to capsize them.
"Sonar?" Hedge demanded. "Pan's pipes, Valdez! Maybe if you hadn't been
staring into Hazel's eyes, holding hands for so long-"

"What?" Frank yelped.
"It wasn't like that!" Hazel protested.
"It doesn't matter!" Piper said. "Jason, can you call some lightning?"
Jason struggled to his feet. "I-" He only managed to shake his head.
Summoning the storm earlier had taken too much out of him. Leo doubted the
poor guy could pop a spark plug in the shape he was in.
"Percy!" Annabeth said. "Can you talk to that thing? Do you know what it
is?"
The son of the sea god shook his head, clearly mystified. "Maybe it's just
curious about the ship. Maybe-"
The monster's tendrils lashed across the deck so fast, Leo didn't even have
time to yell, Look out!
One slammed Percy in the chest and sent him crashing down the steps.
Another wrapped around Piper's legs and dragged her, screaming, toward the
rail. Dozens more tendrils curled around the masts, encircling the crossbows and
ripping down the rigging.
"Nose-hair attack!" Hedge snatched up his bat and leaped into action; but his
hits just bounced harmlessly off the tendrils.
Jason drew his sword. He tried to free Piper, but he was still weak. His gold
blade cut through the tendrils with no problem, but faster than he could sever
them, more took their place.
Annabeth unsheathed her dagger. She ran through the forest of tentacles,
dodging and stabbing at whatever target she could find. Frank pulled out his
bow. He fired over the side at the creature's body, lodging arrows in the chinks
of its shell; but that only seemed to annoy the monster. It bellowed, and rocked
the ship. The mast creaked like it might snap off.
They needed more firepower, but they couldn't use ballistae. They needed to
deliver a blast that wouldn't destroy the ship. But how_ ?
Leo's eyes fixed on a supply crate next to Hazel's feet.
"Hazel!" he yelled. "That box! Open it!"
She hesitated, then saw the box he meant. The label read WARNING. DO NOT
OPEN.

"Open it!" Leo yelled again. "Coach, take the wheel! Turn us toward the
monster, or we'll capsize."
Hedge danced through the tentacles with his nimble goat hooves, smashing
away with gusto. He bounded toward the helm and took the controls.
"Hope you got a plan!" he shouted.
"A bad one." Leo raced toward the mast.
The monster pushed against the Argo II. The deck lurched to forty-five
degrees. Despite everyone's efforts, the tentacles were just too numerous to
fight. They seemed able to elongate as much as they wanted. Soon they'd have
the Argo II completely entangled. Percy hadn't appeared from below. The others
were fighting for their lives against nose hair.
"Frank!" Leo called as he ran toward Hazel. "Buy us some time! Can you
turn into a shark or something?"
Frank glanced over, scowling; and in that moment a tentacle slammed into
the big guy, knocking him overboard.
Hazel screamed. She'd opened the supply box and almost dropped the two
glass vials she was holding.
Leo caught them. Each was the size of an apple, and the liquid inside glowed
poisonous green. The glass was warm to the touch. Leo's chest felt like it might
implode from guilt. He'd just distracted Frank and possibly gotten him killed,
but he couldn't think about it. He had to save the ship.
"Come on!" He handed Hazel one of the vials. "We can kill the monster-
and save Frank!"
He hoped he wasn't lying. Getting to the port rail was more like rock
climbing than walking, but finally they made it.
"What is this stuff?" Hazel gasped, cradling her glass vial.
"Greek fire!"
Her eyes widened. "Are you crazy? If these break, we'll burn the whole
ship!"
"Its mouth!" Leo said. "Just chuck it down its-"
Suddenly Leo was crushed against Hazel, and the world turned sideways. As
they were lifted into the air, he realized they'd been wrapped together in a

tentacle. Leo's arms were free, but it was all he could do to keep hold of his
Greek fire vial. Hazel struggled. Her arms were pinned, which meant at any
moment the vial trapped between them might break_and that would be
extremely bad for their health.
They rose ten feet, twenty feet, thirty feet above the monster. Leo caught a
glimpse of his friends in a losing battle, yelling and slashing at the monster's
nose hairs. He saw Coach Hedge struggling to keep the ship from capsizing. The
sea was dark, but in the moonlight he thought he saw a glistening object floating
near the monster-maybe the unconscious body of Frank Zhang.
"Leo," Hazel gasped, "I can't-my arms-"
"Hazel," he said. "Do you trust me?"
"No!"
"Me neither," Leo admitted. "When this thing drops us, hold your breath.
Whatever you do, try to chuck your vial as far away from the ship as possible."
"Why-why would it drop us?"
Leo stared down at the monster's head. This would be a tough shot, but he
had no choice. He raised the vial in his left hand. He pressed his right hand
against the tentacle and summoned fire to his palm-a narrowly focused, whitehot burst.
That got the creature's attention. A tremble went all the way down the
tentacle as its flesh blistered under Leo's touch. The monster raised its maw,
bellowing in pain, and Leo threw his Greek fire straight down its throat.
After that, things got fuzzy. Leo felt the tentacle release them. They fell. He
heard a muffled explosion and saw a green flash of light inside the giant pink
lampshade of the monster's body. The water hit Leo's face like a brick wrapped
in sandpaper, and he sank into darkness. He clamped his mouth shut, trying not
to breathe, but he could feel himself losing consciousness.
Through the sting of the salt water, he thought he saw the hazy silhouette of
the ship's hull above-a dark oval surrounded by a green fiery corona, but he
couldn't tell if the ship was actually on fire.
Killed by a giant shrimp, Leo thought bitterly. At least let the Argo II survive.
Let my friends be okay.

His vision began to dim. His lungs burned.
Just as he was about to give up, a strange face hovered over him-a man who
looked like Chiron, their trainer back at Camp Half-Blood. He had the same
curly hair, shaggy beard, and intelligent eyes-a look somewhere between wild
hippie and fatherly professor, except this man's skin was the color of a lima
bean. The man silently held up a dagger. His expression was grim and
reproachful, as if to say: Now, hold still, or I can't kill you properly.
Leo blacked out.
When Leo woke, he wondered if he was a ghost in another flashback, because he
was floating weightlessly. His eyes slowly adjusted to the dim light.
"About time." Frank's voice had too much reverb, like he was speaking
through several layers of plastic wrap.
Leo sat up_or rather he drifted upright. He was underwater, in a cave about
the size of a two-car garage. Phosphorescent moss covered the ceiling, bathing
the room in a blue-and-green glow. The floor was a carpet of sea urchins, which
would have been uncomfortable to walk on, so Leo was glad he was floating. He
didn't understand how he could be breathing with no air.
Frank levitated nearby in meditation position. With his chubby face and his
grumpy expression, he looked like a Buddha who'd achieved enlightenment and
wasn't thrilled about it.
The only exit to the cave was blocked by a massive abalone shell-its surface
glistening in pearl and rose and turquoise. If this cave was a prison, at least it had
an awesome door.
"Where are we?" Leo asked. "Where is everyone else?"
"Everyone?" Frank grumbled. "I don't know. As far as I can tell, it's just you
and me and Hazel down here. The fish-horse guys took Hazel about an hour ago,
leaving me with you."
Frank's tone made it obvious he didn't approve of those arrangements. He
didn't look injured, but Leo realized that he no longer had his bow or quiver. In a
panic, Leo patted his waist. His tool belt was gone.
"They searched us," Frank said. "Took anything that could be a weapon."

"Who?" Leo demanded. "Who are these fish-horse-?"
"Fish-horse guys," Frank clarified, which wasn't very clear. "They must have
grabbed us when we fell in the ocean and dragged us_wherever this is."
Leo remembered the last thing he'd seen before he passed out-the limabean-colored face of the bearded man with the dagger. "The shrimp monster.
The Argo II-is the ship okay?"
"I don't know," Frank said darkly. "The others might be in trouble or hurt, or
-or worse. But I guess you care more about your ship than your friends."
Leo felt like his face had just hit the water again. "What kind of stupid thing
-?"
Then he realized why Frank was so angry: the flashback. Things had
happened so fast with the monster attack, Leo had almost forgotten. Coach
Hedge had made that stupid comment about Leo and Hazel holding hands and
gazing into each other's eyes. It probably hadn't helped that Leo had gotten
Frank knocked overboard right after that.
Suddenly Leo found it hard to meet Frank's gaze.
"Look, man_I'm sorry I got us into this mess. I totally jacked things up." He
took a deep breath, which felt surprisingly normal, considering he was
underwater. "Me and Hazel holding hands_it's not what you think. She was
showing me this flashback from her past, trying to figure out my connection with
Sammy."
Frank's angry expression started to unknot, replaced by curiosity. "Did she_
did you figure it out?"
"Yeah," Leo said. "Well, sort of. We didn't get a chance to talk about it
afterward because of Shrimpzilla, but Sammy was my great-grandfather."
He told Frank what they'd seen. The weirdness hadn't fully registered yet,
but now, trying to explain it aloud, Leo could hardly believe it. Hazel had been
sweet on his bisabuelo, a guy who had died when Leo was a baby. Leo hadn't
made the connection before, but he had a vague memory of older family
members calling his grandfather Sam Junior. Which meant Sam Senior was
Sammy, Leo's bisabuelo. At some point, Tia Callida-Hera herself-had talked
with Sammy, consoling him and giving him a glimpse into the future, which

meant that Hera had been shaping Leo's life generations before he was even
born. If Hazel had stayed in the 1940s, if she'd married Sammy, Leo might've
been her great-grandson.
"Oh, man," Leo said when he had finished the story. "I don't feel so good.
But I swear on the Styx, that's what we saw."
Frank had the same expression as the monster catfish head-wide glassy eyes
and an open mouth. "Hazel_Hazel liked your great-grandfather? That's why
she likes you?"
"Frank, I know this is weird. Believe me. But I don't like Hazel-not that
way. I'm not moving in on your girl."
Frank knit his eyebrows. "No?"
Leo hoped he wasn't blushing. Truthfully, he had no idea how he felt about
Hazel. She was awesome and cute, and Leo had a weakness for awesome cute
girls. But the flashback had complicated his feelings a lot.
Besides, his ship was in trouble.
I guess you care more about your ship than your friends, Frank had said.
That wasn't true, was it? Leo's dad, Hephaestus, had admitted once that he
wasn't good with organic life forms. And, yes, Leo had always been more
comfortable with machines than people. But he did care about his friends. Piper
and Jason_he'd known them the longest, but the others were important to him
too. Even Frank. They were like family.
The problem was, it had been so long since Leo had had a family, he couldn't
even remember how it felt. Sure, last winter he'd become senior counselor of
Hephaestus cabin; but most of his time had been spent building the ship. He
liked his cabin mates. He knew how to work with them-but did he really know
them?
If Leo had a family, it was the demigods on the Argo II-and maybe Coach
Hedge, which Leo would never admit aloud.
You will always be the outsider, warned Nemesis's voice; but Leo tried to
push that thought aside.
"Right, so_" He looked around him. "We need to make a plan. How are we
breathing? If we're under the ocean, shouldn't we be crushed by the water

pressure?"
Frank shrugged. "Fish-horse magic, I guess. I remember the green guy
touching my head with the point of a dagger. Then I could breathe."
Leo studied the abalone door. "Can you bust us out? Turn into a hammerhead
shark or something?"
Frank shook his head glumly. "My shape-shifting doesn't work. I don't know
why. Maybe they cursed me, or maybe I'm too messed up to focus."
"Hazel could be in trouble," Leo said. "We've got to get out of here."
He swam to the door and ran his fingers along the abalone. He couldn't feel
any kind of latch or other mechanism. Either the door could only be opened by
magic or sheer force was required-neither of which was Leo's specialty.
"I've already tried," Frank said. "Even if we get out, we have no weapons."
"Hmm_" Leo held up his hand. "I wonder."
He concentrated, and fire flickered over his fingers. For a split second, Leo
was excited, because he hadn't expected it to work underwater. Then his plan
started working a little too well. Fire raced up his arm and over his body until he
was completely shrouded in a thin veil of flame. He tried to breathe, but he was
inhaling pure heat.
"Leo!" Frank flailed backward like he was falling off a bar stool. Instead of
racing to Leo's aid, he hugged the wall to get as far away as possible.
Leo forced himself to stay calm. He understood what was going on. The fire
itself couldn't hurt him. He willed the flames to die and counted to five. He took
a shallow breath. He had oxygen again.
Frank stopped trying to merge with the cave wall. "You're_you're okay?"
"Yeah," Leo grumbled. "Thanks for the assist."
"I-I'm sorry." Frank looked so horrified and ashamed it was hard for Leo to
stay mad at him. "I just_what happened?"
"Clever magic," Leo said. "There's a thin layer of oxygen around us, like an
extra skin. Must be self-regenerating. That's how we're breathing and staying
dry. The oxygen gave the fire fuel-except the fire also suffocated me."
"I really don't_" Frank gulped. "I don't like that fire summoning you do."
He started getting cozy with the wall again.

Leo didn't mean to, but he couldn't help laughing. "Man, I'm not going to
attack you."
"Fire," Frank repeated, like that one word explained everything.
Leo remembered what Hazel had said-that his fire made Frank nervous.
He'd seen the discomfort in Frank's face before, but Leo hadn't taken it
seriously. Frank seemed way more powerful and scary than Leo was.
Now it occurred to him that Frank might have had a bad experience with fire.
Leo's own mom had died in a machine shop blaze. Leo had been blamed for it.
He'd grown up being called a freak, an arsonist, because whenever he got angry,
things burned.
"Sorry I laughed," he said, and he meant it. "My mom died in a fire. I
understand being afraid of it. Did, uh_did something like that happen with
you?"
Frank seemed to be weighing how much to say. "My house_my
grandmother's place. It burned down. But it's more than that_" He stared at the
sea urchins on the floor. "Annabeth said I could trust the crew. Even you."
"Even me, huh?" Leo wondered how that had come up in conversation.
"Wow, high praise."
"My weakness_" Frank started, like the words cut his mouth. "There's this
piece of firewood-"
The abalone door rolled open.
Leo turned and found himself face-to-face with Lima Bean Man, who wasn't
actually a man at all. Now that Leo could see him clearly, the guy was by far the
weirdest creature he'd ever met, and that was saying a lot.
From the waist up, he was more or less human-a thin, bare-chested dude
with a dagger in his belt and a band of seashells strapped across his chest like a
bandolier. His skin was green, his beard scraggly brown, and his longish hair
was tied back in a seaweed bandana. A pair of lobster claws stuck up from his
head like horns, turning and snapping at random.
Leo decided he didn't look so much like Chiron. He looked more like the
poster Leo's mom used to keep in her workspace-that old Mexican bandit
Pancho Villa, except with seashells and lobster horns.

From the waist down, the guy was more complicated. He had the forelegs of
a blue-green horse, sort of like a centaur, but toward the back, his horse body
morphed into a long fishy tail about ten feet long, with a rainbow-colored, Vshaped tail fin.
Now Leo understood what Frank meant about fish-horse guys.
"I am Bythos," said the green man. "I will interrogate Frank Zhang."
His voice was calm and firm, leaving no room for debate.
"Why did you capture us?" Leo demanded. "Where's Hazel?"
Bythos narrowed his eyes. His expression seemed to say: Did this tiny
creature just talk to me? "You, Leo Valdez, will go with my brother."
"Your brother?"
Leo realized that a much larger figure was looming behind Bythos, with a
shadow so wide, it filled the entire cave entrance.
"Yes," Bythos said with a dry smile. "Try not to make Aphros mad."

APHROS LOOKED LIKE HIS BROTHER, except he was blue instead of green and
much, much bigger. He had Arnold-as-Terminator abs and arms, and a square,
brutish head. A huge Conan-approved sword was strapped across his back. Even
his hair was bigger-a massive globe of blue-black frizz so thick that his lobsterclaw horns appeared to be drowning as they tried to swim their way to the
surface.
"Is that why they named you Aphros?" Leo asked as they glided down the
path from the cave. "Because of the Afro?"
Aphros scowled. "What do you mean?"
"Nothing," Leo said quickly. At least he would never have trouble
remembering which fish dude was which. "So what are you guys, exactly?"
"Ichthyocentaurs," Aphros said, like it was a question he was tired of
answering.
"Uh, icky what?"
"Fish centaurs. We are the half brothers of Chiron."
"Oh, he's a friend of mine!"
Aphros narrowed his eyes. "The one called Hazel told us this, but we will
determine the truth. Come."

Leo didn't like the sound of determine the truth. It made him think of torture
racks and red-hot pokers.
He followed the fish centaur through a massive forest of kelp. Leo could've
darted to one side and gotten lost in the plants pretty easily, but he didn't try. For
one thing, he figured Aphros could travel much faster in the water, and the guy
might be able to shut off the magic that let Leo move and breathe. Inside or
outside the cave, Leo was just as much a captive.
Also, Leo had no clue where he was.
They drifted between rows of kelp as tall as apartment buildings. The greenand-yellow plants swayed weightlessly, like columns of helium balloons. High
above, Leo saw a smudge of white that might have been the sun.
He guessed that meant they'd been here overnight. Was the Argo II all right?
Had it sailed on without them, or were their friends still searching?
Leo couldn't even be sure how deep they were. Plants could grow here-so
not too deep, right? Still, he knew he couldn't just swim for the surface. He'd
heard about people who ascended too quickly and developed nitrogen bubbles in
their blood. Leo wanted to avoid carbonated blood.
They drifted along for maybe half a mile. Leo was tempted to ask where
Aphros was taking him, but the big sword strapped to the centaur's back sort of
discouraged conversation.
Finally the kelp forest opened up. Leo gasped. They were standing
(swimming, whatever) at the summit of a high underwater hill. Below them
stretched an entire town of Greek-style buildings on the seafloor.
The roofs were tiled with mother-of-pearl. The gardens were filled with coral
and sea anemones. Hippocampi grazed in a field of seaweed. A team of
Cyclopes was placing the domed roof on a new temple, using a blue whale as a
crane. And swimming through the streets, hanging out in the courtyards,
practicing combat with tridents and swords in the arena were dozens of mermen
and mermaids-honest-to-goodness fish-people.
Leo had seen a lot of crazy stuff, but he had always thought merpeople were
silly fictional creatures, like Smurfs or Muppets.
There was nothing silly or cute about these merpeople, though. Even from a

distance, they looked fierce and not at all human. Their eyes glowed yellow.
They had sharklike teeth and leathery skin in colors ranging from coral red to ink
black.
"It's a training camp," Leo realized. He looked at Aphros in awe. "You train
heroes, the same way Chiron does?"
Aphros nodded, a glint of pride in his eyes. "We have trained all the famous
mer-heroes! Name a mer-hero, and we have trained him or her!"
"Oh, sure," Leo said. "Like_um, the Little Mermaid?"
Aphros frowned. "Who? No! Like Triton, Glaucus, Weissmuller, and Bill!"
"Oh." Leo had no idea who any of those people were. "You trained Bill?
Impressive."
"Indeed!" Aphros pounded his chest. "I trained Bill myself. A great
merman."
"You teach combat, I guess."
Aphros threw up his hands in exasperation. "Why does everyone assume
that?"
Leo glanced at the massive sword on the fish-guy's back. "Uh, I don't know."
"I teach music and poetry!" Aphros said. "Life skills! Homemaking! These
are important for heroes."
"Absolutely." Leo tried to keep a straight face. "Sewing? Cookie baking?"
"Yes. I'm glad you understand. Perhaps later, if I don't have to kill you, I will
share my brownie recipe." Aphros gestured behind him contemptuously. "My
brother Bythos-he teaches combat."
Leo wasn't sure whether he felt relieved or insulted that the combat trainer
was interrogating Frank, while Leo got the home economics teacher. "So, great.
This is Camp_what do you call it? Camp Fish-Blood?"
Aphros frowned. "I hope that was a joke. This is Camp __________." He
made a sound that was a series of sonar pings and hisses.
"Silly me," Leo said. "And, you know, I could really go for some of those
brownies! So what do we have to do to get to the not killing me stage?"
"Tell me your story," Aphros said.
Leo hesitated, but not for long. Somehow he sensed that he should tell the

truth. He started at the beginning-how Hera had been his babysitter and placed
him in the flames; how his mother had died because of Gaea, who had identified
Leo as a future enemy. He talked about how he had spent his childhood
bouncing around in foster homes, until he and Jason and Piper had been taken to
Camp Half-Blood. He explained the Prophecy of Seven, the building of the Argo
II, and their quest to reach Greece and defeat the giants before Gaea woke.
As he talked, Aphros drew some wicked-looking metal spikes from his belt.
Leo was afraid he had said something wrong, but Aphros pulled some seaweed
yarn from his pouch and started knitting. "Go on," he urged. "Don't stop."
By the time Leo had explained the eidolons, the problem with the Romans,
and all the troubles the Argo II had encountered crossing the United States and
embarking from Charleston, Aphros had knitted a complete baby bonnet.
Leo waited while the fish centaur put away his supplies. Aphros's lobsterclaw horns kept swimming around in his thick hair, and Leo had to resist the
urge to try to rescue them.
"Very well," Aphros said. "I believe you."
"As simple as that?"
"I am quite good at discerning lies. I hear none from you. Your story also fits
with what Hazel Levesque told us."
"Is she-?"
"Of course," Aphros said. "She's fine." He put his fingers to his mouth and
whistled, which sounded strange underwater-like a dolphin screaming. "My
people will bring her here shortly. You must understand_our location is a
carefully guarded secret. You and your friends showed up in a warship, pursued
by one of Keto's sea monsters. We did not know whose side you were on."
"Is the ship all right?"
"Damaged," Aphros said, "but not terribly. The skolopendra withdrew after it
got a mouthful of fire. Nice touch."
"Thank you. Skolopendra? Never heard of it."
"Consider yourself lucky. They are nasty creatures. Keto must really hate
you. At any rate, we rescued you and the other two from the creature's tentacles
as it retreated into the deep. Your friends are still above, searching for you; but

we have obscured their vision. We had to be sure you were not a threat.
Otherwise, we would have had to_take measures."
Leo gulped. He was pretty sure taking measures did not mean baking extra
brownies. And if these guys were so powerful that they could keep their camp
hidden from Percy, who had all those Poseidonish water powers, they were not
fish dudes to mess with. "So_we can go?"
"Soon," Aphros promised. "I must check with Bythos. When he is done
talking with your friend Gank-"
"Frank."
"Frank. When they are done, we will send you back to your ship. And we
may have some warnings for you."
"Warnings?"
"Ah." Aphros pointed. Hazel emerged from the kelp forest, escorted by two
vicious-looking mermaids, who were baring their fangs and hissing. Leo thought
Hazel might be in danger. Then he saw she was completely at ease, grinning and
talking with her escorts, and Leo realized that the mermaids were laughing.
"Leo!" Hazel paddled toward him. "Isn't this place amazing?"
They were left alone at the ridge, which must have meant Aphros really did trust
them. While the centaur and the mermaids went off to fetch Frank, Leo and
Hazel floated above the hill and gazed down at the underwater camp.
Hazel told him how the mermaids had warmed up to her right away. Aphros
and Bythos had been fascinated by her story, as they had never met a child of
Pluto before. On top of that, they had heard many legends about the horse Arion,
and they were amazed that Hazel had befriended him.
Hazel had promised to visit again with Arion. The mermaids had written their
phone numbers in waterproof ink on Hazel's arm so that she could keep in
touch. Leo didn't even want to ask how mermaids got cell-phone coverage in the
middle of the Atlantic.
As Hazel talked, her hair floated around her face in a cloud-like brown earth
and gold dust in a miner's pan. She looked very sure of herself and very
beautiful-not at all like the shy, nervous girl in that New Orleans schoolyard

with her smashed canvas lunch bag at her feet.
"We didn't get to talk," Leo said. He was reluctant to bring up the subject,
but he knew this might be their only chance to be alone. "I mean about Sammy."
Her smile faded. "I know_I just need some time to let it sink in. It's strange
to think that you and he_"
She didn't need to finish the thought. Leo knew exactly how strange it was.
"I'm not sure I can explain this to Frank," she added. "About you and me
holding hands."
She wouldn't meet Leo's eyes. Down in the valley, the Cyclopes work crew
cheered as the temple roof was set in place.
"I talked to him," Leo said. "I told him I wasn't trying to_you know. Make
trouble between you two."
"Oh. Good."
Did she sound disappointed? Leo wasn't sure, and he wasn't sure he wanted
to know.
"Frank, um, seemed pretty freaked out when I summoned fire." Leo
explained what had happened in the cave.
Hazel looked stunned. "Oh, no. That would terrify him."
Her hand went to her denim jacket, like she was checking for something in
the inside pocket. She always wore that jacket, or some sort of overshirt, even
when it was hot outside. Leo had assumed that she did it out of modesty, or
because it was better for horseback riding, like a motorcycle jacket. Now he
began to wonder.
His brain shifted into high gear. He remembered what Frank had said about
his weakness_a piece of firewood. He thought about why this kid would have a
fear of fire, and why Hazel would be so attuned to those feelings. Leo thought
about some of the stories he'd heard at Camp Half-Blood. For obvious reasons,
he tended to pay attention to legends about fire. Now he remembered one he
hadn't thought about in months.
"There was an old legend about a hero," he recalled. "His lifeline was tied to
a stick in a fireplace, and when that piece of wood burned up_"
Hazel's expression turned dark. Leo knew he'd struck on the truth.

"Frank has that problem," he guessed. "And the piece of firewood_" He
pointed at Hazel's jacket. "He gave it to you for safekeeping?"
"Leo, please don't_I can't talk about it."
Leo's instincts as a mechanic kicked in. He started thinking about the
properties of wood and the corrosiveness of salt water. "Is the firewood okay in
the ocean like this? Does the layer of air around you protect it?"
"It's fine," Hazel said. "The wood didn't even get wet. Besides, it's wrapped
up in several layers of cloth and plastic and-" She bit her lip in frustration.
"And I'm not supposed to talk about it! Leo, the point is if Frank seems afraid of
you, or uneasy, you've got to understand_"
Leo was glad he was floating, because he probably would've been too dizzy
to stand. He imagined being in Frank's position, his life so fragile, it literally
could burn up at any time. He imagined how much trust it would take to give his
lifeline-his entire fate-to another person.
Frank had chosen Hazel, obviously. So when he had seen Leo-a guy who
could summon fire at will-moving in on his girl_
Leo shuddered. No wonder Frank didn't like him. And suddenly Frank's
ability to turn into a bunch of different animals didn't seem so awesome-not if
it came with a big catch like that.
Leo thought about his least favorite line in the Prophecy of Seven: To storm
or fire the world must fall. For a long time, he'd figured that Jason or Percy
stood for storm-maybe both of them together. Leo was the fire guy. Nobody
said that, but it was pretty clear. Leo was one of the wild cards. If he did the
wrong thing, the world could fall. No_it must fall. Leo wondered if Frank and
his firewood had something to do with that line. Leo had already made some
epic mistakes. It would be so easy for him to accidentally send Frank Zhang up
in flames.
"There you are!" Bythos's voice made Leo flinch.
Bythos and Aphros floated over with Frank between them, looking pale but
okay. Frank studied Hazel and Leo carefully, as if trying to read what they'd
been talking about.
"You are free to go," Bythos said. He opened his saddlebags and returned

their confiscated supplies. Leo had never been so glad to fit his tool belt around
his waist.
"Tell Percy Jackson not to worry," Aphros said. "We have understood your
story about the imprisoned sea creatures in Atlanta. Keto and Phorcys must be
stopped. We will send a quest of mer-heroes to defeat them and free their
captives. Perhaps Cyrus?"
"Or Bill," Bythos offered.
"Yes! Bill would be perfect," Aphros agreed. "At any rate, we are grateful
that Percy brought this to our attention."
"You should talk to him in person," Leo suggested. "I mean, son of Poseidon,
and all."
Both fish-centaurs shook their heads solemnly. "Sometimes it is best not to
interact with Poseidon's brood," Aphros said. "We are friendly with the sea god,
of course; but the politics of undersea deities is_complicated. And we value our
independence. Nevertheless, tell Percy thank you. We will do what we can to
speed you safely across the Atlantic without further interference from Keto's
monsters, but be warned: in the ancient sea, the Mare Nostrum, more dangers
await."
Frank sighed. "Naturally."
Bythos clapped the big guy on the shoulder. "You will be fine, Frank Zhang.
Keep practicing those sea life transformations. The koi fish is good, but try for a
Portuguese man-of-war. Remember what I showed you. It's all in the breathing."
Frank looked mortally embarrassed. Leo bit his lip, determined not to smile.
"And you, Hazel," Aphros said, "come visit again, and bring that horse of
yours! I know you are concerned about the time you lost, spending the night in
our realm. You are worried about your brother, Nico._"
Hazel gripped her cavalry sword. "Is he-do you know where he is?"
Aphros shook his head. "Not exactly. But when you get closer, you should be
able to sense his presence. Never fear! You must reach Rome the day after
tomorrow if you are to save him, but there is still time. And you must save him."
"Yes," Bythos agreed. "He will be essential for your journey. I am not sure
how, but I sense it is true."

Aphros planted his hand on Leo's shoulder. "As for you, Leo Valdez, stay
close to Hazel and Frank when you reach Rome. I sense they will face_ah,
mechanical difficulties that only you can overcome."
"Mechanical difficulties?" Leo asked.
Aphros smiled as if that was great news. "And I have gifts for you, the brave
navigator of the Argo II!"
"I like to think of myself as captain," Leo said. "Or supreme commander."
"Brownies!" Aphros said proudly, shoving an old-fashioned picnic basket
into Leo's arms. It was surrounded by a bubble of air, which Leo hoped would
keep the brownies from turning into saltwater fudge sludge. "In this basket you
will also find the recipe. Not too much butter! That's the trick. And I've given
you a letter of introduction to Tiberinus, the god of the Tiber River. Once you
reach Rome, your friend the daughter of Athena will need this."
"Annabeth_" Leo said. "Okay, but why?"
Bythos laughed. "She follows the Mark of Athena, doesn't she? Tiberinus can
guide her in this quest. He's an ancient, proud god who can be_difficult; but
letters of introduction are everything to Roman spirits. This will convince
Tiberinus to help her. Hopefully."
"Hopefully," Leo repeated.
Bythos produced three small pink pearls from his saddlebags. "And now, off
with you, demigods! Good sailing!"
He threw a pearl at each of them in turn, and three shimmering pink bubbles
of energy formed around them.
They began to rise through the water. Leo just had time to think: A hamster
ball elevator? Then he gained speed and rocketed toward the distant glow of the
sun above.

PIPER HAD A NEW ENTRY in her top-ten list of Times Piper Felt Useless.
Fighting Shrimpzilla with a dagger and a pretty voice? Not so effective. Then
the monster had sunk into the deep and disappeared along with three of her
friends, and she'd been powerless to help them.
Afterward, Annabeth, Coach Hedge, and Buford the table rushed around
repairing things so that the ship wouldn't sink. Percy, despite being exhausted,
searched the ocean for their missing friends. Jason, also exhausted, flew around
the rigging like a blond Peter Pan, putting out fires from the second green
explosion that had lit up the sky just above the mainmast.
As for Piper, all she could do was stare at her knife Katoptris, trying to locate
Leo, Hazel, and Frank. The only images that came to her were ones she didn't
want to see: three black SUVs driving north from Charleston, packed with
Roman demigods, Reyna sitting at the wheel of the lead car. Giant eagles
escorted them from above. Every so often, glowing purple spirits in ghostly
chariots appeared out of the countryside and fell in behind them, thundering up
I-95 toward New York and Camp Half-Blood.
Piper concentrated harder. She saw the nightmarish images she had seen
before: the human-headed bull rising from the water, then the dark well-shaped

room filling with black water as Jason, Percy, and she struggled to stay afloat.
She sheathed Katoptris, wondering how Helen of Troy had stayed sane
during the Trojan War, if this blade had been her only source of news. Then she
remembered that everyone around Helen had been slaughtered by the invading
Greek army. Maybe she hadn't stayed sane.
By the time the sun rose, none of them had slept. Percy had scoured the
seafloor and found nothing. The Argo II was no longer in danger of sinking,
though without Leo, they couldn't do full repairs. The ship was capable of
sailing, but no one suggested leaving the area-not without their missing friends.
Piper and Annabeth sent a dream vision to Camp Half-Blood, warning Chiron
of what had happened with the Romans at Fort Sumter. Annabeth explained her
exchange of words with Reyna. Piper relayed the vision from her knife about the
SUVs racing north. The kindly centaur's face seemed to age thirty years during
the course of their conversation, but he assured them he would see to the
defenses of the camp. Tyson, Mrs. O'Leary, and Ella had arrived safely. If
necessary, Tyson could summon an army of Cyclopes to the camp's defense, and
Ella and Rachel Dare were already comparing prophecies, trying to learn more
about what the future held. The job of the seven demigods aboard the Argo II,
Chiron reminded them, was to finish the quest and come back safely.
After the Iris-message, the demigods paced the deck in silence, staring at the
water and hoping for a miracle.
When it finally came-three giant pink bubbles bursting at the surface off the
starboard bow and ejecting Frank, Hazel, and Leo-Piper went a little crazy. She
cried out with relief and dove straight into the water.
What was she thinking? She didn't take a rope or a life vest or anything. But
at the moment, she was just so happy that she paddled over to Leo and kissed
him on the cheek, which kind of surprised him.
"Miss me?" Leo laughed.
Piper was suddenly furious. "Where were you? How are you guys alive?"
"Long story," he said. A picnic basket bobbed to the surface next to him.
"Want a brownie?"
Once they got on board and changed into dry clothes (poor Frank had to

borrow a pair of too-small pants from Jason) the crew all gathered on the
quarterdeck for a celebratory breakfast-except for Coach Hedge, who grumbled
that the atmosphere was getting too cuddly for his tastes and went below to
hammer out some dents in the hull. While Leo fussed over his helm controls,
Hazel and Frank related the story of the fish-centaurs and their training camp.
"Incredible," Jason said. "These are really good brownies."
"That's your only comment?" Piper demanded.
He looked surprised. "What? I heard the story. Fish-centaurs. Merpeople.
Letter of intro to the Tiber River god. Got it. But these brownies-"
"I know," Frank said, his mouth full. "Try them with Esther's peach
preserves."
"That," Hazel said, "is incredibly disgusting."
"Pass me the jar, man," Jason said.
Hazel and Piper exchanged a look of total exasperation. Boys.
Percy, for his part, wanted to hear every detail about the aquatic camp. He
kept coming back to one point: "They didn't want to meet me?"
"It wasn't that," Hazel said. "Just_undersea politics, I guess. The merpeople
are territorial. The good news is they're taking care of that aquarium in Atlanta.
And they'll help protect the Argo II as we cross the Atlantic."
Percy nodded absently. "But they didn't want to meet me?"
Annabeth swatted his arm. "Come on, Seaweed Brain! We've got other
things to worry about."
"She's right," Hazel said. "After today, Nico has less than two days. The fishcentaurs said we have to rescue him. He's essential to the quest somehow."
She looked around defensively, as if waiting for someone to argue. No one
did. Piper tried to imagine what Nico di Angelo was feeling, stuck in a jar with
only two pomegranate seeds left to sustain him, and no idea whether he would
be rescued. It made Piper anxious to reach Rome, even though she had a horrible
feeling she was sailing toward her own sort of prison-a dark room filled with
water.
"Nico must have information about the Doors of Death," Piper said. "We'll
save him, Hazel. We can make it in time. Right, Leo?"

"What?" Leo tore his eyes away from the controls. "Oh, yeah. We should
reach the Mediterranean tomorrow morning. Then spend the rest of that day
sailing to Rome, or flying, if I can get the stabilizer fixed by then._"
Jason suddenly looked as though his brownie with peach preserves didn't
taste so good. "Which will put us in Rome on the last possible day for Nico.
Twenty-four hours to find him-at most."
Percy crossed his legs. "And that's only part of the problem. There's the
Mark of Athena, too."
Annabeth didn't seem happy with the change of topic. She rested her hand on
her backpack, which, since they'd left Charleston, she always seemed to have
with her.
She opened the bag and brought out a thin bronze disk the diameter of a
donut. "This is the map that I found at Fort Sumter. It's_"
She stopped abruptly, staring at the smooth bronze surface. "It's blank!"
Percy took it and examined both sides. "It wasn't like this earlier?"
"No! I was looking at it in my cabin and_" Annabeth muttered under her
breath. "It must be like the Mark of Athena. I can only see it when I'm alone. It
won't show itself to other demigods."
Frank scooted back like the disk might explode. He had an orange-juice
mustache and a brownie-crumb beard that made Piper want to hand him a
napkin.
"What did it have on it?" Frank asked nervously. "And what is the Mark of
Athena? I still don't get it."
Annabeth took the disk from Percy. She turned it in the sunlight, but it
remained blank. "The map was hard to read, but it showed a spot on the Tiber
River in Rome. I think that's where my quest starts_the path I've got to take to
follow the Mark."
"Maybe that's where you meet the river god Tiberinus," Piper said. "But
what is the Mark?"
"The coin," Annabeth murmured.
Percy frowned. "What coin?"
Annabeth dug into her pocket and brought out a silver drachma. "I've been

carrying this ever since I saw my mom at Grand Central. It's an Athenian coin."
She passed it around. While each demigod looked at it, Piper had a ridiculous
memory of show-and-tell in elementary school.
"An owl," Leo noted. "Well, that makes sense. I guess the branch is an olive
branch? But what's this inscription, ___-Area Of Effect?"
"It's alpha, theta, epsilon," Annabeth said. "In Greek it stands for Of The
Athenians_or you could read it as the children of Athena. It's sort of the
Athenian motto."
"Like SPQR for the Romans," Piper guessed.
Annabeth nodded. "Anyway, the Mark of Athena is an owl, just like that one.
It appears in fiery red. I've seen it in my dreams. Then twice at Fort Sumter."
She described what had happened at the fort-the voice of Gaea, the spiders
in the garrison, the Mark burning them away. Piper could tell it wasn't easy for
her to talk about.
Percy took Annabeth's hand. "I should have been there for you."
"But that's the point," Annabeth said. "No one can be there for me. When I
get to Rome, I'll have to strike out on my own. Otherwise, the Mark won't
appear. I'll have to follow it to_to the source."
Frank took the coin from Leo. He stared at the owl. "The giants' bane stands
gold and pale, Won with pain from a woven jail." He looked up at Annabeth.
"What is it_this thing at the source?"
Before Annabeth could answer, Jason spoke up.
"A statue," he said. "A statue of Athena. At least_that's my guess."
Piper frowned. "You said you didn't know."
"I don't. But the more I think about it_there's only one artifact that could fit
the legend." He turned to Annabeth. "I'm sorry. I should have told you
everything I've heard, much earlier. But honestly, I was scared. If this legend is
true-"
"I know," Annabeth said. "I figured it out, Jason. I don't blame you. But if
we manage to save the statue, Greek and Romans together_Don't you see? It
could heal the rift."
"Hold on." Percy made a time-out gesture. "What statue?"

Annabeth took back the silver coin and slipped it into her pocket. "The
Athena Parthenos," she said. "The most famous Greek statue of all time. It was
forty feet tall, covered in ivory and gold. It stood in the middle of the Parthenon
in Athens."
The ship went silent, except for the waves lapping against the hull.
"Okay, I'll bite," Leo said at last. "What happened to it?"
"It disappeared," Annabeth said.
Leo frowned. "How does a forty-foot-tall statue in the middle of the
Parthenon just disappear?"
"That's a good question," Annabeth said. "It's one of the biggest mysteries in
history. Some people thought the statue was melted down for its gold, or
destroyed by invaders. Athens was sacked a number of times. Some thought the
statue was carried off-"
"By Romans," Jason finished. "At least, that's one theory, and it fits the
legend I heard at Camp Jupiter. To break the Greeks' spirit, the Romans carted
off the Athena Parthenos when they took over the city of Athens. They hid it in
an underground shrine in Rome. The Roman demigods swore it would never see
the light of day. They literally stole Athena, so she could no longer be the
symbol of Greek military power. She became Minerva, a much tamer goddess."
"And the children of Athena have been searching for the statue ever since,"
Annabeth said. "Most don't know about the legend, but in each generation, a few
are chosen by the goddess. They're given a coin like mine. They follow the
Mark of Athena_a kind of magical trail that links them to the statue_hoping to
find the resting place of the Athena Parthenos and get the statue back."
Piper watched the two of them-Annabeth and Jason-with quiet
amazement. They spoke like a team, without any hostility or blame. The two of
them had never really trusted each other. Piper was close enough to both of them
to know that. But now_if they could discuss such a huge problem so calmly-
the ultimate source of Greek/Roman hatred-maybe there was hope for the two
camps, after all.
Percy seemed be having similar thoughts, judging from his surprised
expression. "So if we-I mean you-find the statue_what would we do with it?

Could we even move it?"
"I'm not sure," Annabeth admitted. "But if we could save it somehow, it
could unite the two camps. It could heal my mother of this hatred she's got,
tearing her two aspects apart. And maybe_maybe the statue has some sort of
power that could help us against the giants."
Piper stared at Annabeth with awe, just starting to appreciate the huge
responsibility her friend had taken on. And Annabeth meant to do it alone.
"This could change everything," Piper said. "It could end thousands of years
of hostility. It might be the key to defeating Gaea. But if we can't help you_"
She didn't finish, but the question seemed to hang in the air: Was saving the
statue even possible?
Annabeth squared her shoulders. Piper knew she must be terrified inside, but
she did a good job hiding it.
"I have to succeed," Annabeth said simply. "The risk is worth it."
Hazel twirled her hair pensively. "I don't like the idea of you risking your life
alone, but you're right. We saw what recovering the golden eagle standard did
for the Roman legion. If this statue is the most powerful symbol of Athena ever
created-"
"It could kick some serious booty," Leo offered.
Hazel frowned. "That wasn't the way I'd put it, but yes."
"Except_" Percy took Annabeth's hand again. "No child of Athena has ever
found it. Annabeth, what's down there? What's guarding it? If it's got to do with
spiders-?"
"Won through pain from a woven jail," Frank recalled. "Woven, like webs?"
Annabeth's face turned as white as printer paper. Piper suspected that
Annabeth knew what awaited her_or at least that she had a very good idea. She
was trying to hold down a wave of panic and terror.
"We'll deal with that when we get to Rome," Piper suggested, putting a little
charmspeak in her voice to soothe her friend's nerves. "It's going to work out.
Annabeth is going to kick some serious booty, too. You'll see."
"Yeah," Percy said. "I learned a long time ago: Never bet against Annabeth."
Annabeth looked at them both gratefully.

Judging from their half-eaten breakfasts, the others still felt uneasy; but Leo
managed to shake them out of it. He pushed a button, and a loud blast of steam
exploded from Festus's mouth, making everyone jump.
"Well!" he said. "Good pep rally, but there's still a ton of things to fix on this
ship before we get to the Mediterranean. Please report to Supreme Commander
Leo for your superfun list of chores!"
Piper and Jason took charge of cleaning the lower deck, which had been thrown
into chaos during the monster attack. Reorganizing sickbay and battening down
the storage area took them most of the day, but Piper didn't mind. For one thing,
she got to spend time with Jason. For another, last night's explosions had given
Piper a healthy respect for Greek fire. She didn't want any loose vials of that
stuff rolling through the corridors in the middle of the night.
As they were fixing up the stables, Piper thought about the night Annabeth
and Percy had spent down here accidentally. Piper wished that she could talk
with Jason all night-just curl up on the stable floor and enjoy being with him.
Why didn't they get to break the rules?
But Jason wasn't like that. He was hardwired to be a leader and set a good
example. Breaking the rules didn't come naturally to him.
No doubt Reyna admired that about him. Piper did too_mostly.
The one time she'd convinced him to be a rebel was back at the Wilderness
School, when they had sneaked onto the roof at night to watch a meteor shower.
That's where they'd had their first kiss.
Unfortunately, that memory was a trick of the Mist, a magical lie implanted
in her head by Hera. Piper and Jason were together now, in real life, but their
relationship had been founded on an illusion. If Piper tried to get the real Jason
to sneak out at night, would he do it?
She swept the hay into piles. Jason fixed a broken door on one of the stables.
The glass floor hatch glowed from the ocean below-a green expanse of light
and shadow that seemed to go down forever. Piper kept glancing over, afraid
she'd see a monster's face peeping in, or the water cannibals from her
grandfather's old stories; but all she saw was an occasional school of herring.

As she watched Jason work, she admired how easily he did each task,
whether it was fixing a door or oiling saddles. It wasn't just his strong arms and
his skillful hands, though Piper liked those just fine, but the way he acted so
upbeat and confident. He did what needed to be done without complaint. He kept
his sense of humor, despite the fact that the guy had to be dead on his feet after
not having slept the night before. Piper couldn't blame Reyna for having a crush
on him. When it came to work and duty, Jason was Roman to the core.
Piper thought about her mother's tea party in Charleston. She wondered what
the goddess had told Reyna a year ago, and why it had changed the way Reyna
treated Jason. Had Aphrodite encouraged or discouraged her to like Jason?
Piper wasn't sure, but she wished her mom hadn't appeared in Charleston.
Regular mothers were embarrassing enough. Godly glamour moms who invited
your friends over for tea and guy talk-that was just mortifying.
Aphrodite had paid so much attention to Annabeth and Hazel, it had made
Piper uneasy. When her mom got interested in somebody's love life, usually that
was a bad sign. It meant trouble was coming. Or as Aphrodite would say, twists
and turns.
But also, Piper was secretly hurt not to have her mother to herself. Aphrodite
had barely looked at her. She hadn't said a word about Jason. She hadn't
bothered explaining her conversation with Reyna at all.
It was almost as if Aphrodite no longer found Piper interesting. Piper had
gotten her guy. Now it was up to her to make things work, and Aphrodite had
moved on to newer gossip as easily as she might toss out an old copy of a tabloid
magazine.
All of you are such excellent stories, Aphrodite had said. I mean, girls.
Piper hadn't appreciated that, but part of her had thought: Fine. I don't want
to be a story. I want a nice steady life with a nice steady boyfriend.
If only she knew more about making relationships work. She was supposed to
be an expert, being the head counselor for Aphrodite cabin. Other campers at
Camp Half-Blood came to her for advice all the time. Piper had tried to do her
best, but with her own boyfriend, she was clueless. She was constantly secondguessing herself, reading too much into Jason's expressions, his moods, his

offhand comments. Why did it have to be so hard? Why couldn't there be a
happily-ever-after ride-into-the-sunset feeling all the time?
"What are you thinking?" Jason asked.
Piper realized she'd been making a sour face. In the reflection of the glass
bay doors, she looked like she'd swallowed a teaspoon of salt.
"Nothing," she said. "I mean_a lot of things. Kind of all at once."
Jason laughed. The scar on his lip almost disappeared when he smiled.
Considering all the stuff he'd been through, it was amazing that he could be in
such a good mood.
"It's going to work out," he promised. "You said so yourself."
"Yeah," Piper agreed. "Except I was just saying that to make Annabeth feel
better."
Jason shrugged. "Still, it's true. We're almost to the ancient lands. We've left
the Romans behind."
"And now they're on their way to Camp Half-Blood to attack our friends."
Jason hesitated, as if it was hard for him to put a positive spin on that.
"Chiron will find a way to stall them. The Romans might take weeks to actually
find the camp and plan their attack. Besides, Reyna will do what she can to slow
things down. She's still on our side. I know she is."
"You trust her." Piper's voice sounded hollow, even to herself.
"Look, Pipes. I told you, you've got nothing to be jealous about."
"She's beautiful. She's powerful. She's so_Roman."
Jason put down his hammer. He took her hand, which sent a tingle up her
arm. Piper's dad had once taken her to the Aquarium of the Pacific and shown
her an electric eel. He told her that the eel sent out pulses that shocked and
paralyzed its prey. Every time Jason looked at her or touched her hand, Piper felt
like that.
"You're beautiful and powerful," he said. "And I don't want you to be
Roman. I want you to be Piper. Besides, we're a team, you and me."
She wanted to believe him. They'd been together, really, for months now.
Still, she couldn't get rid of her doubts, any more than Jason could get rid of the
SPQR tattoo burned on his forearm.

Above them, the ship's bell rang for dinner.
Jason smirked. "We'd better get up there. We don't want Coach Hedge tying
bells around our necks."
Piper shuddered. Coach Hedge had threatened to do that after the
Percy/Annabeth scandal, so he'd know if anyone sneaked out at night.
"Yeah," she said regretfully, looking at the glass doors below their feet. "I
guess we need dinner_and a good night's sleep."

THE NEXT MORNING PIPER WOKE to a different ship's horn-a blast so loud it
literally shook her out of bed.
She wondered if Leo was pulling another joke. Then the horn boomed again.
It sounded like it was coming from several hundred yards away-from another
vessel.
She rushed to get dressed. By the time she got up on deck, the others had
already gathered-all hastily dressed except for Coach Hedge, who had pulled
the night watch.
Frank's Vancouver Winter Olympics shirt was inside out. Percy wore pajama
pants and a bronze breastplate, which was an interesting fashion statement.
Hazel's hair was all blown to one side, as though she'd walked through a
cyclone; and Leo had accidentally set himself on fire. His T-shirt was in charred
tatters. His arms were smoking.
About a hundred yards to port, a massive cruise ship glided past. Tourists
waved at them from fifteen or sixteen rows of balconies. Some smiled and took
pictures. None of them looked surprised to see an Ancient Greek trireme. Maybe
the Mist made it look like a fishing boat, or perhaps the cruisers thought the
Argo II was a tourist attraction.

The cruise ship blew its horn again, and the Argo II had a shaking fit.
Coach Hedge plugged his ears. "Do they have to be so loud?"
"They're just saying hi," Frank speculated.
"WHAT?" Hedge yelled back.
The ship edged past them, heading out to sea. The tourists kept waving. If
they found it strange that the Argo II was populated by half-asleep kids in armor
and pajamas and a man with goat legs, they didn't let on.
"Bye!" Leo called, raising his smoking hand.
"Can I man the ballistae?" Hedge asked.
"No," Leo said through a forced smile.
Hazel rubbed her eyes and looked across the glittering green water. "Where
are-oh_Wow."
Piper followed her gaze and gasped. Without the cruise ship blocking their
view, she saw a mountain jutting from the sea less than half a mile to the north.
Piper had seen impressive cliffs before. She'd driven Highway 1 along the
California coast. She'd even fallen down the Grand Canyon with Jason and
flown back up. But neither was as amazing as this massive fist of blinding white
rock thrust into the sky. On one side, the limestone cliffs were almost completely
sheer, dropping into the sea over a thousand feet below, as near as Piper could
figure. On the other side, the mountain sloped in tiers, covered in green forest, so
that the whole thing reminded Piper of a colossal sphinx, worn down over the
millennia, with a massive white head and chest, and a green cloak over its back.
"The Rock of Gibraltar," Annabeth said in awe. "At the tip of Spain. And
over there-" She pointed south, to a more distant stretch of red and ochre hills.
"That must be Africa. We're at the mouth of the Mediterranean."
The morning was warm, but Piper shivered. Despite the wide stretch of sea in
front of them, she felt like she was standing at an impassable barrier. Once in the
Mediterranean-the Mare Nostrum-they would be in the ancient lands. If the
legends were true, their quest would become ten times more dangerous.
"What now?" she asked. "Do we just sail in?"
"Why not?" Leo said. "It's a big shipping channel. Boats go in and out all the
time."

Not triremes full of demigods, Piper thought.
Annabeth gazed at the Rock of Gibraltar. Piper recognized that brooding
expression on her friend's face. It almost always meant that she anticipated
trouble.
"In the old days," Annabeth said, "they called this area the pillars of
Hercules. The Rock was supposed to be one pillar. The other was one of the
African mountains. Nobody is sure which one."
"Hercules, huh?" Percy frowned. "That guy was like the Starbucks of Ancient
Greece. Everywhere you turn-there he is."
A thunderous boom shook the Argo II, though Piper wasn't sure where it
came from this time. She didn't see any other ships, and the skies were clear.
Her mouth suddenly felt dry. "So_these Pillars of Hercules. Are they
dangerous?"
Annabeth stayed focused on the white cliffs, as if waiting for the Mark of
Athena to blaze to life. "For Greeks, the pillars marked the end of the known
world. The Romans said the pillars were inscribed with a Latin warning-"
"Non plus ultra," Percy said.
Annabeth looked stunned. "Yeah. Nothing Further Beyond. How did you
know?"
Percy pointed. "Because I'm looking at it."
Directly ahead of them, in the middle of the straits, an island had shimmered
into existence. Piper was positive no island had been there before. It was a small
hilly mass of land, covered in forests and ringed with white beaches. Not very
impressive compared to Gibraltar, but in front of the island, jutting from waves
about a hundred yards offshore, were two white Grecian columns as tall as the
Argo's masts. Between the columns, huge silver words glittered underwater-
maybe an illusion, or maybe inlaid in the sand: NON PLUS ULTRA.
"Guys, do I turn around?" Leo asked nervously. "Or_"
No one answered-maybe because, like Piper, they had noticed the figure
standing on the beach. As the ship approached the columns, she saw a darkhaired man in purple robes, his arms crossed, staring intently at their ship as if he
were expecting them. Piper couldn't tell much else about him from this distance,

but judging from his posture, he wasn't happy.
Frank inhaled sharply. "Could that be-?"
"Hercules," Jason said. "The most powerful demigod of all time."
The Argo II was only a few hundred yards from the columns now.
"Need an answer," Leo said urgently. "I can turn, or we can take off. The
stabilizers are working again. But I need to know quick-"
"We have to keep going," Annabeth said. "I think he's guarding these straits.
If that's really Hercules, sailing or flying away wouldn't do any good. He'll
want to talk to us."
Piper resisted the urge to use charmspeak. She wanted to yell at Leo: Fly! Get
us out of here! Unfortunately, she had a feeling that Annabeth was right. If they
wanted to pass into the Mediterranean, they couldn't avoid this meeting.
"Won't Hercules be on our side?" she asked hopefully. "I mean_he's one of
us, right?"
Jason grunted. "He was a son of Zeus, but when he died, he became a god.
You can never be sure with gods."
Piper remembered their meeting with Bacchus in Kansas-another god who
used to be a demigod. He hadn't been exactly helpful.
"Great," Percy said. "Seven of us against Hercules."
"And a satyr!" Hedge added. "We can take him."
"I've got a better idea," Annabeth said. "We send ambassadors ashore. A
small group-one or two at most. Try to talk with him."
"I'll go," Jason said. "He's a son of Zeus. I'm the son of Jupiter. Maybe he'll
be friendly to me."
"Or maybe he'll hate you," Percy suggested. "Half brothers don't always get
along."
Jason scowled. "Thank you, Mr. Optimism."
"It's worth a shot," Annabeth said. "At least Jason and Hercules have
something in common. And we need our best diplomat. Somebody who's good
with words."
All eyes turned to Piper.
She tried to avoid screaming and jumping over the side. A bad premonition

gnawed at her gut. But if Jason was going ashore, she wanted to be with him.
Maybe this hugely powerful god would turn out to be helpful. They had to have
good luck once in a while, didn't they?
"Fine," she said. "Just let me change my clothes."
Once Leo had anchored the Argo II between the pillars, Jason summoned the
wind to carry him and Piper ashore.
The man in purple was waiting for them.
Piper had heard tons of stories about Hercules. She'd seen several cheesy
movies and cartoons. Before today, if she had thought about him at all, she'd just
roll her eyes and imagine some stupid hairy dude in his thirties with a barrel
chest and a gross hippie beard, with a lion skin over his head and a big club, like
a caveman. She imagined he would smell bad, belch, and scratch himself a lot,
and speak mostly in grunts.
She was not expecting this.
His feet were bare, covered in white sand. His robes made him look like a
priest, though Piper couldn't remember which rank of priest wore purple. Was
that cardinals? Bishops? And did the purple color mean he was the Roman
version of Hercules rather than the Greek? His beard was fashionably scruffy,
like Piper's dad and his actor friends wore theirs-the sort of I just happened not
to shave for two days and I still look awesome look.
He was well built, but not too stocky. His ebony hair was close-cropped,
Roman style. He had startling blue eyes like Jason's, but his skin was coppery,
as if he'd spent his entire life on a tanning bed. The most surprising thing: he
looked about twenty. Definitely no older. He was handsome in a rugged but notat-all-caveman way.
He did in fact have a club, which lay in the sand next to him, but it was more
like an oversized baseball bat-a five-foot-long polished cylinder of mahogany
with a leather handgrip studded in bronze. Coach Hedge would have been
jealous.
Jason and Piper landed at the edge of the surf. They approached slowly,
careful not to make any threatening moves. Hercules watched them with no

particular emotion, as if they were some form of seabird he had never noticed
before.
"Hello," Piper said. Always a good start.
"What's up?" Hercules said. His voice was deep but casual, very modern. He
could've been greeting them in the high school locker room.
"Uh, not much." Piper winced. "Well, actually, a lot. I'm Piper. This is Jason.
We-"
"Where's your lion skin?" Jason interrupted.
Piper wanted to elbow him, but Hercules looked more amused than annoyed.
"It's ninety degrees out here," he said. "Why would I wear my lion skin? Do
you wear a fur coat to the beach?"
"I guess that makes sense." Jason sounded disappointed. "It's just that the
pictures always show you with a lion skin."
Hercules glared at the sky accusingly, like he wanted to have words with his
father, Zeus. "Don't believe everything you hear about me. Being famous isn't
as fun as you might think."
"Tell me about it," Piper sighed.
Hercules fixed those brilliant blue eyes on her. "Are you famous?"
"My dad_he's in the movies."
Hercules snarled. "Don't get me started with the movies. Gods of Olympus,
they never get anything right. Have you seen one movie about me where I look
like me?"
Piper had to admit he had a point. "I'm surprised you're so young."
"Ha! Being immortal helps. But, yes, I wasn't so old when I died. Not by
modern standards. I did a lot during my years as a hero_too much, really." His
eyes drifted to Jason. "Son of Zeus, eh?"
"Jupiter," Jason said.
"Not much difference," Hercules grumbled. "Dad's annoying in either form.
Me? I was called Heracles. Then the Romans came along and named me
Hercules. I didn't really change that much, though lately just thinking about it
gives me splitting headaches_"
The left side of his face twitched. His robes shimmered, momentarily turning

white, then back to purple.
"At any rate," Hercules said, "if you're Jupiter's son, you might understand.
It's a lot of pressure. Enough is never enough. Eventually it can make a guy
snap."
He turned to Piper. She felt like a thousand ants were crawling up her back.
There was a mixture of sadness and darkness in his eyes that seemed not quite
sane, and definitely not safe.
"As for you, my dear," Hercules said, "be careful. Sons of Zeus can be_
well, never mind."
Piper wasn't sure what that meant. Suddenly she wanted to get as far from
this god as possible, but she tried to maintain a calm, polite expression.
"So, Lord Hercules," she said, "we're on a quest. We'd like permission to
pass into the Mediterranean."
Hercules shrugged. "That's why I'm here. After I died, Dad made me the
doorkeeper of Olympus. I said, Great! Palace duty! Party all the time! What he
didn't mention is that I'd be guarding the doors to the ancient lands, stuck on this
island for the rest of eternity. Lots of fun."
He pointed at the pillars rising from the surf. "Stupid columns. Some people
claim I created the whole Strait of Gibraltar by shoving mountains apart. Some
people say the mountains are the pillars. What a bunch of Augean manure. The
pillars are pillars."
"Right," Piper said. "Naturally. So_can we pass?"
The god scratched his fashionable beard. "Well, I have to give you the
standard warning about how dangerous the ancient lands are. Not just any
demigod can survive the Mare Nostrum. Because of that, I have to give you a
quest to complete. Prove your worth, blah, blah, blah. Honestly, I don't make a
big deal of it. Usually I give demigods something simple like a shopping trip,
singing a funny song, that sort of thing. After all those labors I had to complete
for my evil cousin Eurystheus, well_I don't want to be that guy, you know?"
"Appreciate it," Jason said.
"Hey, no problem." Hercules sounded relaxed and easygoing, but he still
made Piper nervous. That dark glint in his eyes reminded her of charcoal soaked

in kerosene, ready to go up at a moment's notice.
"So anyway," Hercules said, "what's your quest?"
"Giants," Jason said. "We're off to Greece to stop them from awakening
Gaea."
"Giants," Hercules muttered. "I hate those guys. Back when I was a demigod
hero_ah, but never mind. So which god put you up to this-Dad? Athena?
Maybe Aphrodite?" He raised an eyebrow at Piper. "As pretty as you are, I'm
guessing that's your mom."
Piper should've been thinking faster, but Hercules had unsettled her. Too late,
she realized the conversation had become a minefield.
"Hera sent us," Jason said. "She brought us together to-"
"Hera." Suddenly Hercules's expression was like the cliffs of Gibraltar-a
solid, unforgiving sheet of stone.
"We hate her too," Piper said quickly. Gods, why hadn't it occurred to her?
Hera had been Hercules's mortal enemy. "We didn't want to help her. She didn't
give us much choice, but-"
"But here you are," Hercules said, all friendliness gone. "Sorry, you two. I
don't care how worthy your quest is. I don't do anything that Hera wants. Ever."
Jason looked mystified. "But I thought you made up with her when you
became a god."
"Like I said," Hercules grumbled, "don't believe everything you hear. If you
want to pass into the Mediterranean, I'm afraid I've got to give you an extrahard quest."
"But we're like brothers," Jason protested. "Hera's messed with my life, too.
I understand-"
"You understand nothing," Hercules said coldly. "My first family: dead. My
life wasted on ridiculous quests. My second wife dead, after being tricked into
poisoning me and leaving me to a painful demise. And my compensation? I got
to become a minor god. Immortal, so I can never forget my pain. Stuck here as a
gatekeeper, a doorman, a_a butler for the Olympians. No, you don't
understand. The only god who understands me even a little bit is Dionysus. And
at least he invented something useful. I have nothing to show except bad film

adaptations of my life."
Piper turned on the charmspeak. "That's horribly sad, Lord Hercules. But
please go easy on us. We're not bad people."
She thought she'd succeeded. Hercules hesitated. Then his jaw tightened, and
he shook his head. "On the opposite side of this island, over those hills, you'll
find a river. In the middle of that river lives the old god Achelous."
Hercules waited, as if this information should send them running in terror.
"And_ ?" Jason asked.
"And," Hercules said, "I want you to break off his other horn and bring it to
me."
"He has horns," Jason said. "Wait_his other horn? What-?"
"Figure it out," the god snapped. "Here, this should help."
He said the word help like it meant hurt. From under his robes, Hercules took
a small book and tossed it to Piper. She barely caught it.
The book's glossy cover showed a photographic montage of Greek temples
and smiling monsters. The Minotaur was giving the thumbs-up. The title read:
The Hercules Guide to the Mare Nostrum.
"Bring me that horn by sundown," Hercules said. "Just the two of you. No
contacting your friends. Your ship will remain where it is. If you succeed, you
may pass into the Mediterranean."
"And if we don't?" Piper asked, pretty sure she didn't want the answer.
"Well, Achelous will kill you, obviously," Hercules said. "And I will break
your ship in half with my bare hands and send your friends to an early grave."
Jason shifted his feet. "Couldn't we just sing a funny song?"
"I'd get going," Hercules said coldly. "Sundown. Or your friends are dead."

THE HERCULES GUIDE TO THE MARE NOSTRUM didn't help much with snakes and
mosquitoes.
"If this is a magic island," Piper grumbled, "why couldn't it be a nice magic
island?"
They tromped up a hill and down into a heavily wooded valley, careful to
avoid the black-and-red-striped snakes sunning themselves on the rocks.
Mosquitoes swarmed over stagnant ponds in the lowest areas. The trees were
mostly stunted olives, cypress, and pines. The chirring of the cicadas and the
oppressive heat reminded Piper of the rez in Oklahoma during the summer.
So far they hadn't found any river.
"We could fly," Jason suggested again.
"We might miss something," Piper said. "Besides, I'm not sure I want to drop
in on an unfriendly god. What was his name? Etch-a-Sketch?"
"Achelous." Jason was trying to read the guidebook while they walked, so he
kept running into trees and stumbling over rocks. "Says here he's a potamus."
"He's a hippopotamus?"
"No. Potamus. A river god. According to this, he's the spirit of some river in
Greece."

"Since we're not in Greece, let's assume he's moved," Piper said. "Doesn't
bode well for how useful that book is going to be. Anything else?"
"Says Hercules fought him one time," Jason offered.
"Hercules fought ninety-nine percent of everything in Ancient Greece."
"Yeah. Let's see. Pillars of Hercules_" Jason flipped a page. "Says here this
island has no hotels, no restaurants, no transportation. Attractions: Hercules and
two pillars. Huh, this is interesting. Supposedly the dollar sign-you know, the S
with the two lines through it?-that came from the Spanish coat of arms, which
showed the Pillars of Hercules with a banner curling between them."
Great, Piper thought. Jason finally gets along with Annabeth, and her brainiac
tendencies start rubbing off on him.
"Anything helpful?" she asked.
"Wait. Here's a tiny reference to Achelous: This river god fought Hercules
for the hand of the beautiful Deianira. During the struggle, Hercules broke off
one of the river god's horns, which became the first cornucopia."
"Corn of what?"
"It's that Thanksgiving decoration," Jason said. "The horn with all the
goodies spilling out? We have some in the mess hall at Camp Jupiter. I didn't
know the original one was actually some guy's horn."
"And we're supposed to take his other one," Piper said. "I'm guessing that
won't be so easy. Who was Deianira?"
"Hercules married her," Jason said. "I think_doesn't say here. But I think
something bad happened to her."
Piper remembered what Hercules had told them: his first family dead, his
second wife dead after being tricked into poisoning him. She was liking this
challenge less and less.
They trudged across a ridge between two hills, trying to stay in the shade; but
Piper was already soaked with perspiration. The mosquitoes left welts on her
ankles, arms, and neck, so she probably looked like a smallpox victim.
She'd finally gotten some alone time with Jason, and this was how they spent
it.
She was irritated with Jason for having mentioned Hera, but she knew she

shouldn't blame him. Maybe she was just irritated with him in general. Ever
since Camp Jupiter, she'd been carrying around a lot of worry and resentment.
She wondered what Hercules had wanted to tell her about the sons of Zeus.
They couldn't be trusted? They were under too much pressure? Piper tried to
imagine Jason becoming a god when he died, standing on some beach guarding
the gates to an ocean long after Piper and everyone else he knew in his mortal
life were dead.
She wondered if Hercules had ever been as positive as Jason-more upbeat,
confident, quick to comfort. It was hard to picture.
As they hiked down into the next valley, Piper wondered what was happening
back on the Argo II. She was tempted to send an Iris-message, but Hercules had
warned them not to contact their friends. She hoped Annabeth could guess what
was going on and didn't try to send another party ashore. Piper wasn't sure what
Hercules would do if he were bothered further. She imagined Coach Hedge
getting impatient and aiming a ballista at the man in purple, or eidolons
possessing the crew and forcing them to commit suicide-by-Hercules.
Piper shuddered. She didn't know what time it was, but the sun was already
starting to sink. How had the day passed so quickly? She would have welcomed
sundown for the cooler temperatures, except it was also their deadline. A cool
night breeze wouldn't mean much if they were dead. Besides, tomorrow was
July 1, the Kalends of July. If their information was correct, it would be Nico di
Angelo's last day of life, and the day Rome was destroyed.
"Stop," Jason said.
Piper wasn't sure what was wrong. Then she realized she could hear running
water up ahead. They crept through the trees and found themselves on the bank
of a river. It was maybe forty feet wide but only a few inches deep, a silver sheet
of water racing over a smooth bed of stones. A few yards downstream, the rapids
plunged into a dark blue swimming hole.
Something about the river bothered her. The cicadas in the trees had gone
quiet. No birds were chirping. It was as if the water was giving a lecture and
would only allow its own voice.
But the more Piper listened, the more inviting the river seemed. She wanted

to take a drink. Maybe she should take off her shoes. Her feet could really use a
soak. And that swimming hole_it would be so nice to jump in with Jason and
relax in the shade of the trees, floating in the nice cool water. So romantic.
Piper shook herself. These thoughts weren't hers. Something was wrong. It
almost felt like the river was charmspeaking.
Jason sat on a rock and started taking off his shoes. He grinned at the
swimming hole like he couldn't wait to get in.
"Cut it out!" Piper yelled at the river.
Jason looked startled. "Cut what out?"
"Not you," Piper said. "Him."
She felt silly pointing at the water, but she was certain it was working some
sort of magic, swaying their feelings.
Just when she thought she had lost it and Jason would tell her so, the river
spoke: Forgive me. Singing is one of the few pleasures I have left.
A figure emerged from the swimming hole as if rising on an elevator.
Piper's shoulders tensed. It was the creature she'd seen in her knife blade, the
bull with the human face. His skin was as blue as the water. His hooves levitated
on the river's surface. At the top of his bovine neck was the head of a man with
short curly black hair, a beard done in ringlets Ancient Greek style, deep,
mournful eyes behind bifocal glasses, and a mouth that seemed set in a
permanent pout. Sprouting from the left side of his head was a single bull's horn
-a curved black-and-white one like warriors might turn into drinking cups. The
imbalance made his head tilt to the left, so that he looked like he was trying to
get water out of his ear.
"Hello," he said sadly. "Come to kill me, I suppose."
Jason put his shoes back on and stood slowly. "Um, well-"
"No!" Piper intervened. "I'm sorry. This is embarrassing. We didn't want to
bother you, but Hercules sent us."
"Hercules!" The bull-man sighed. His hooves pawed the water as if ready to
charge. "To me, he'll always be Heracles. That's his Greek name, you know: the
glory of Hera."
"Funny name," Jason said. "Since he hates her."

"Indeed," the bull-man said. "Perhaps that's why he didn't protest when the
Romans renamed him Hercules. Of course, that's the name most people know
him by_his brand, if you will. Hercules is nothing if not image-conscious."
The bull-man spoke with bitterness but familiarity, as if Hercules was an old
friend who had lost his way.
"You're Achelous?" Piper asked.
The bull-man bent his front legs and lowered his head in a bow, which Piper
found both sweet and a little sad. "At your service. River god extraordinaire.
Once the spirit of the mightiest river in Greece. Now sentenced to dwell here, on
the opposite side of the island from my old enemy. Oh, the gods are cruel! But
whether they put us so close together to punish me or Hercules, I have never
been sure."
Piper wasn't sure what he meant, but the background noise of the river was
invading her mind again-reminding her how hot and thirsty she felt, how
pleasant a nice swim would be. She tried to focus.
"I'm Piper," she said. "This is Jason. We don't want to fight. It's just that
Heracles-Hercules-whoever he is, got mad at us and sent us here."
She explained about their quest to the ancient lands to stop the giants from
waking Gaea. She described how their team of Greeks and Romans had come
together, and how Hercules had thrown a temper tantrum when he found out
Hera was behind it.
Achelous kept tipping his head to the left, so Piper wasn't sure if he was
dozing off or dealing with one-horn fatigue.
When she was done, Achelous regarded her as if she were developing a
regrettable skin rash. "Ah, my dear_the legends are true, you know. The spirits,
the water cannibals."
Piper had to fight back a whimper. She hadn't told Achelous anything about
that. "H-how-?"
"River gods know many things," he said. "Alas, you are focusing on the
wrong story. If you had made it to Rome, the story of the flood would have
served you better."
"Piper?" Jason asked. "What's he talking about?"

Her thoughts were suddenly as jumbled as kaleidoscope glass. The story of
the flood_If you had made it to Rome.
"I-I'm not sure," she said, though the mention of a flood story rang a distant
bell. "Achelous, I don't understand-"
"No, you don't," the river god sympathized. "Poor thing. Another girl stuck
with a son of Zeus."
"Wait a minute," Jason said. "It's Jupiter, actually. And how does that make
her a poor thing?"
Achelous ignored him. "My girl, do you know the cause of my fight with
Hercules?"
"It was over a woman," Piper recalled. "Deianira?"
"Yes." Achelous heaved a sigh. "And do you know what happened to her?"
"Uh_" Piper glanced at Jason.
He took out his guidebook and began flipping through pages. "It doesn't
really-"
Achelous snorted indignantly. "What is that?"
Jason blinked. "Just_The Hercules Guide to Mare Nostrum. He gave us the
guidebook so-"
"That is not a book," Achelous insisted. "He gave you that just to get under
my skin, didn't he? He knows I hate those things."
"You hate_books?" Piper asked.
"Bah!" Achelous's face flushed, turning his blue skin eggplant purple.
"That's not a book."
He pawed the water. A scroll shot from the river like a miniature rocket and
landed in front of him. He nudged it open with his hooves. The weathered
yellow parchment unfurled, covered with faded Latin script and elaborate handdrawn pictures.
"This is a book!" Achelous said. "Oh, the smell of sheepskin! The elegant
feel of the scroll unrolling beneath my hooves. You simply can't duplicate it in
something like that."
He nodded indignantly at the guidebook in Jason's hand. "You young folks
today and your newfangled gadgets. Bound pages. Little compact squares of text

that are not hoof-friendly. That's a bound book, a b-book, if you must. But it's
not a traditional book. It'll never replace the good old-fashioned scroll!"
"Um, I'll just put this away now." Jason slipped the guidebook in his back
pocket the way he might holster a dangerous weapon.
Achelous seemed to calm down a little, which was a relief to Piper. She
didn't need to get run over by a one-horned bull with a scroll obsession.
"Now," Achelous said, tapping a picture on his scroll. "This is Deianira."
Piper knelt down to look. The hand-painted portrait was small, but she could
tell the woman had been very beautiful, with long dark hair, dark eyes, and a
playful smile that probably drove guys crazy.
"Princess of Calydon," the river god said mournfully. "She was promised to
me, until Hercules butted in. He insisted on combat."
"And he broke off your horn?" Jason guessed.
"Yes," Achelous said. "I could never forgive him for that. Horribly
uncomfortable, having only one horn. But the situation was worse for poor
Deianira. She could have had a long, happy life married to me."
"A man-headed bull," Piper said, "who lives in a river."
"Exactly," Achelous agreed. "It seems impossible she would refuse, eh?
Instead, she went off with Hercules. She picked the handsome, flashy hero over
the good, faithful husband who would have treated her well. What happened
next? Well, she should have known. Hercules was much too wrapped up in his
own problems to be a good husband. He had already murdered one wife, you
know. Hera cursed him, so he flew into a rage and killed his entire family.
Horrible business. That's why he had to do those twelve labors as penance."
Piper felt appalled. "Wait_Hera made him crazy, and Hercules had to do the
penance?"
Achelous shrugged. "The Olympians never seem to pay for their crimes. And
Hera has always hated the sons of Zeus_or Jupiter." He glanced distrustfully at
Jason. "At any rate, my poor Deianira had a tragic end. She became jealous of
Hercules's many affairs. He gallivanted all over the world, you see, just like his
father Zeus, flirting with every woman he met. Finally Deianira got so desperate
she listened to bad advice. A crafty centaur named Nessus told her that if she

wanted Hercules to be faithful forever, she should spread some centaur blood on
the inside of Hercules's favorite shirt. Unfortunately Nessus was lying because
he wanted revenge on Hercules. Deianira followed his instructions, but instead
of making Hercules a faithful husband-"
"Centaur blood is like acid," Jason said.
"Yes," Achelous said. "Hercules died a painful death. When Deianira realized
what she'd done, she_" The river god drew a line across his neck.
"That's awful," Piper said.
"And the moral, my dear?" Achelous said. "Beware the sons of Zeus."
Piper couldn't look at her boyfriend. She wasn't sure she could mask the
uneasiness in her eyes. Jason would never be like Hercules. But the story played
into all her fears. Hera had manipulated their relationship, just as she had
manipulated Hercules. Piper wanted to believe that Jason could never go into a
murderous frenzy like Hercules had. Then again, only four days ago he had been
controlled by an eidolon and almost killed Percy Jackson.
"Hercules is a god now," Achelous said. "He married Hebe, the youth
goddess, but still he is rarely at home. He dwells here on this island, guarding
those silly pillars. He says Zeus makes him do this, but I think he prefers being
here to Mount Olympus, nursing his bitterness and mourning his mortal life. My
presence reminds him of his failures-especially the woman who finally killed
him. And his presence reminds me of poor Deianira, who could have been my
wife."
The bull-man tapped the scroll, which rolled itself up and sank into the water.
"Hercules wants my other horn in order to humiliate me," Achelous said.
"Perhaps it would make him feel better about himself, knowing that I'm
miserable too. Besides, the horn would become a cornucopia. Good food and
drink would flow from it, just as my power causes the river to flow. No doubt
Hercules would keep the cornucopia for himself. It would be a tragedy and a
waste."
Piper suspected the noise of the river and the drowsy sound of Achelous's
voice were still affecting her thoughts, but she couldn't help agreeing with the
river god. She was starting to hate Hercules. This poor bull-man seemed so sad

and lonely.
Jason stirred. "I'm sorry, Achelous. Honestly, you've gotten a bum deal. But
maybe_well, without the other horn, you might not be so lopsided. It might feel
better."
"Jason!" Piper protested.
Jason held up his hands. "Just a thought. Besides, I don't see that we have
many choices. If Hercules doesn't get that horn, he'll kill us and our friends."
"He's right," Achelous said. "You have no choice. Which is why I hope
you'll forgive me."
Piper frowned. The river god sounded so heartbroken, she wanted to pat his
head. "Forgive you for what?"
"I have no choice either," Achelous said. "I have to stop you."
The river exploded, and a wall of water crashed over Piper.

THE CURRENT GRABBED HER LIKE A FIST and pulled her into the deep. Struggling
was useless. She clamped her mouth shut, forcing herself not to inhale, but she
could barely keep from panicking. She couldn't see anything but a torrent of
bubbles. She could only hear her own thrashing and the dull roar of the rapids.
She'd just about decided this was how she would die: drowning in a
swimming hole on an island that didn't exist. Then, as suddenly as she'd been
pulled under, she was thrust to the surface. She found herself at the center of a
whirlpool, able to breathe but unable to break free.
A few yards away, Jason broke the surface and gasped, his sword in one
hand. He swung wildly, but there was nothing to attack.
Twenty feet to Piper's right, Achelous rose from the water. "I'm really sorry
about this," he said.
Jason lunged toward him, summoning the winds to lift him out of the river,
but Achelous was quicker and more powerful. A curl of water slammed into
Jason and sent him under once more.
"Stop it!" Piper screamed.
Using charmspeak wasn't easy when she was floundering in a whirlpool, but
she got Achelous's attention.

"I'm afraid I can't stop," said the river god. "I can't let Hercules have my
other horn. It would be mortifying."
"There's another way!" Piper said. "You don't have to kill us!"
Jason clawed his way to the surface again. A miniature storm cloud formed
over his head. Thunder boomed.
"None of that, son of Jupiter," Achelous chided. "If you call lightning, you'll
just electrocute your girlfriend."
The water pulled Jason under again.
"Let him go!" Piper charged her voice with all the persuasiveness she could
muster. "I promise I won't let Hercules get the horn!"
Achelous hesitated. He cantered over to her, his head tilting to the left. "I
believe you mean that."
"I do!" Piper promised. "Hercules is despicable. But, please, first let my
friend go."
The water churned where Jason had gone under. Piper wanted to scream.
How much longer could he hold his breath?
Achelous looked down at her through his bifocals. His expression softened. "I
see. You would be my Deianira. You would be my bride to compensate for my
loss."
"What?" Piper wasn't sure if she'd heard him right. The whirlpool was
literally making her head spin. "Uh, actually I was thinking-"
"Oh, I understand," Achelous said. "You were too modest to suggest this in
front of your boyfriend. You are right, of course. I would treat you much better
than a son of Zeus would. I could make things right after all these centuries. I
could not save Deianira, but I could save you."
Had it been thirty seconds now? A minute? Jason couldn't hold out much
longer.
"You would have to let your friends die," Achelous continued. "Hercules
would be angry, but I can protect you from him. We could be quite happy
together. Let's start by letting that Jason fellow drown, eh?"
Piper could barely hold it together, but she had to concentrate. She masked
her fear and her anger. She was a child of Aphrodite. She had to use the tools she

was given.
She smiled as sweetly as she could and raised her arms. "Lift me up, please."
Achelous's face brightened. He grabbed Piper's hands and pulled her out of
the whirlpool.
She'd never ridden a bull before, but she'd practiced bareback pegasus riding
at Camp Half-Blood, and she remembered what to do. She used her momentum,
swinging one leg over Achelous's back. Then she locked her ankles around his
neck, wrapped one arm around his throat, and drew her knife with the other. She
pressed the blade under the river god's chin.
"Let-Jason-go." She put all her force into the command. "Now!"
Piper realized there were many flaws in her plan. The river god might simply
dissolve into water. Or he could pull her under and wait for her to drown. But
apparently her charmspeak worked. Or maybe Achelous was just too surprised to
think straight. He probably wasn't used to pretty girls threatening to cut his
throat.
Jason shot out of the water like a human cannonball. He broke through the
branches of an olive tree and tumbled onto the grass. That couldn't have felt
good, but he struggled to his feet, gasping and coughing. He raised his sword,
and the dark clouds thickened over the river.
Piper shot him a warning look: Not yet. She still had to get out of this river
without drowning or getting electrocuted.
Achelous arched his back as if contemplating a trick. Piper pressed the knife
harder against his throat.
"Be a good bull," she warned.
"You promised," Achelous said through gritted teeth. "You promised
Hercules wouldn't get my horn."
"And he won't," Piper said. "But I will."
She raised her knife and slashed off the god's horn. The Celestial bronze cut
through the base like it was wet clay. Achelous bellowed in rage. Before he
could recover, Piper stood up on his back. With the horn in one hand and her
dagger in the other, she leaped for the shore.
"Jason!" she yelled.

Thank the gods, he understood. A gust of wind caught her and carried her
safely over the bank. Piper hit the ground rolling as the hairs on her neck stood
up. A metallic smell filled the air. She turned toward the river in time to be
blinded.
BOOM!Lightning stirred the water into a boiling cauldron, steaming and
hissing with electricity. Piper blinked the yellow spots out of her eyes as the god
Achelous wailed and dissolved beneath the surface. His horrified expression
seemed to be asking: How could you?
"Jason, run!" She was still dizzy and sick with fear, but she and Jason crashed
through the woods.
As she climbed the hill, clasping the bull's horn to her chest, Piper realized
she was sobbing-though she wasn't sure if it was from fear, or relief, or shame
for what she'd done to the old river god.
They didn't slow down until they reached the crest of the hill.
Piper felt silly, but she kept breaking down and crying as she told Jason what
had happened while he was struggling underwater.
"Piper, you had no choice." He put his hand on her shoulder. "You saved my
life."
She wiped her eyes and tried to control herself. The sun was nearing the
horizon. They had to get back to Hercules quickly, or their friends would die.
"Achelous forced your hand," Jason continued. "Besides, I doubt that
lightning bolt killed him. He's an ancient god. You'd have to destroy his river to
destroy him. And he can live without a horn. If you had to lie about not giving it
to Hercules, well-"
"I wasn't lying."
Jason stared at her. "Pipes_we don't have a choice. Hercules will kill-"
"Hercules doesn't deserve this." Piper wasn't sure where this rage was
coming from, but she had never felt more certain of anything in her life.
Hercules was a bitter, selfish jerk. He'd hurt too many people, and he wanted
to keep on hurting them. Maybe he'd had some bad breaks. Maybe the gods had
kicked him around. But that didn't excuse it. A hero couldn't control the gods,

but he should be able to control himself.
Jason would never be like that. He would never blame others for his problems
or make a grudge more important than doing the right thing.
Piper was not going to repeat Deianira's story. She wasn't going to go along
with what Hercules wanted just because he was handsome and strong and scary.
He couldn't get his way this time-not after threatening their lives and sending
them to make Achelous miserable for the sake of spiting Hera. Hercules didn't
deserve a horn of plenty. Piper was going to put him in his place.
"I have a plan," she said.
She told Jason what to do. She didn't even realize she was using charmspeak
until his eyes glazed over.
"Whatever you say," he promised. Then he blinked a few times. "We're
going to die, but I'm in."
Hercules was waiting right where they'd left him. He was staring at the Argo II,
docked between the pillars as the sun set behind it. The ship looked okay, but
Piper's plan had started to feel insane to her.
Too late to reconsider. She'd already sent an Iris-message to Leo. Jason was
prepared. And, seeing Hercules again, she felt more certain than ever she
couldn't give him what he wanted.
Hercules didn't exactly brighten when he saw Piper carrying the bull's horn,
but his scowl lines lessened.
"Good," he said. "You got it. In that case, you are free to go."
Piper glanced at Jason. "You heard him. He gave us permission." She turned
back to the god. "That means our ship will be able to pass into the
Mediterranean?"
"Yes, yes." Hercules snapped his fingers. "Now, the horn."
"No," Piper said.
The god frowned. "Excuse me?"
She raised the cornucopia. Since she'd cut it from Achelous's head, the horn
had hollowed out, becoming smooth and dark on the inside. It didn't appear
magical, but Piper was counting on its power.

"Achelous was right," she said. "You're his curse as much as he is yours.
You're a sorry excuse for a hero."
Hercules stared at her as if she were speaking in Japanese. "You realize I
could kill you with a flick of my finger," he said. "I could throw my club at your
ship and cut straight through its hull. I could-"
"You could shut up," Jason said. He drew his sword. "Maybe Zeus is
different from Jupiter. Because I wouldn't put up with any brother who acts like
you."
The veins on Hercules's neck turned as purple as his robes. "You would not
be the first demigod I've killed."
"Jason is better than you," Piper said. "But don't worry. We're not going to
fight you. We're going to leave this island with the horn. You don't deserve it as
a prize. I'm going to keep it, to remind me of what not to be like as a demigod,
and to remind me of poor Achelous and Deianira."
The god's nostrils flared. "Do not mention that name! You can't seriously
think I'm worried about your puny boyfriend. No one is stronger than me."
"I didn't say stronger," Piper corrected. "I said he's better."
Piper pointed the mouth of the horn at Hercules. She let go of the resentment
and doubt and anger she'd been harboring since Camp Jupiter. She concentrated
on all the good things she'd shared with Jason Grace: soaring upward in the
Grand Canyon, walking on the beach at Camp Half-Blood, holding hands at the
sing-along and watching the stars, sitting by the strawberry fields together on
lazy afternoons and listening to the satyrs play their pipes.
She thought about a future when the giants had been defeated, Gaea was
asleep, and they would live happily together-no jealousy, no monsters left to
battle. She filled her heart with those thoughts, and she felt the cornucopia grow
warm.
The horn blasted forth a flood of food as powerful as Achelous's river. A
torrent of fresh fruit, baked goods, and smoked hams completely buried
Hercules. Piper didn't understand how all that stuff could fit through the
entrance of the horn, but she thought the hams were especially appropriate.
When it had spewed out enough goodies to fill a house, the horn shut itself

off. Piper heard Hercules shrieking and struggling somewhere underneath.
Apparently even the strongest god in the world could be caught off guard when
buried under fresh produce.
"Go!" she told Jason, who'd forgotten his part of the plan and was staring in
amazement at the fruit pile. "Go!"
He grabbed Piper's waist and summoned the wind. They shot away from the
island so quickly, Piper almost got whiplash; but it wasn't a second too soon.
As the island retreated from view, Hercules's head broke above the mound of
goodies. Half a coconut was stuck on his noggin like a war helmet. "Kill!" he
bellowed, like he'd had a lot of practice saying it.
Jason touched down on the deck of the Argo II. Thankfully, Leo had done his
part. The ship's oars were already in aerial mode. The anchor was up. Jason
summoned a gale so strong, it pushed them into the sky, while Percy sent a tenfoot-tall wave against the shore, knocking Hercules down a second time, in a
cascade of seawater and pineapples.
By the time the god regained his feet and started lobbing coconuts at them
from far below, the Argo II was already sailing through the clouds above the
Mediterranean.

PERCY WAS NOT FEELING THE LOVE.
Bad enough he'd been run out of Atlanta by evil sea gods. Then he had failed
to stop a giant shrimp attack on the Argo II. Then the ichthyocentaurs, Chiron's
brothers, hadn't even wanted to meet him.
After all that, they had arrived at the Pillars of Hercules, and Percy had to
stay aboard ship while Jason the Big Shot visited his half brother. Hercules, the
most famous demigod of all time, and Percy didn't get to meet him either.
Okay, sure, from what Piper said afterward, Hercules was a jerk, but still_
Percy was getting kind of tired of staying aboard ship and pacing the deck.
The open sea was supposed to be his territory. Percy was supposed to step up,
take charge, and keep everybody safe. Instead, all the way across the Atlantic,
he'd done pretty much nothing except make small talk with sharks and listen to
Coach Hedge sing TV theme songs.
To make matters worse, Annabeth had been distant ever since they had left
Charleston. She spent most of her time in her cabin, studying the bronze map
she'd retrieved from Fort Sumter, or looking up information on Daedalus's
laptop.
Whenever Percy stopped by to see her, she was so lost in thought that the

conversation went something like this:
Percy: "Hey, how's it going?"
Annabeth: "Uh, no thanks."
Percy: "Okay_have you eaten anything today?"
Annabeth: "I think Leo is on duty. Ask him."
Percy: "So, my hair is on fire."
Annabeth: "Okay. In a while."
She got like this sometimes. It was one of the challenges of dating an Athena
girl. Still, Percy wondered what he had to do to get her attention. He was worried
about her after her encounter with the spiders at Fort Sumter, and he didn't know
how to help her, especially if she shut him out.
After leaving the Pillars of Hercules-unscathed except for a few coconuts
lodged in the hull's bronze plating-the ship traveled by air for a few hundred
miles.
Percy hoped the ancient lands wouldn't be as bad as they'd heard. But it was
almost like a commercial: You'll notice the difference immediately!
Several times an hour, something attacked the ship. A flock of flesh-eating
Stymphalian birds swooped out of the night sky, and Festus torched them. Storm
spirits swirled around the mast, and Jason blasted them with lightning. While
Coach Hedge was having dinner on the foredeck, a wild pegasus appeared from
nowhere, stampeded over the coach's enchiladas, and flew off again, leaving
cheesy hoof prints all across the deck.
"What was that for?" the coach demanded.
The sight of the pegasus made Percy wish Blackjack were here. He hadn't
seen his friend in days. Tempest and Arion also hadn't shown themselves.
Maybe they didn't want to venture into the Mediterranean. If so, Percy couldn't
blame them.
Finally around midnight, after the ninth or tenth aerial attack, Jason turned to
him. "How about you get some sleep? I'll keep blasting stuff out of the sky as
long as I can. Then we can go by sea for a while, and you can take point."
Percy wasn't sure that he'd be able to sleep with the boat rocking through the
clouds as it was shaken by angry wind spirits, but Jason's idea made sense. He

went belowdecks and crashed on his bunk.
His nightmares, of course, were anything but restful.
He dreamed he was in a dark cavern. He could only see a few feet in front of
him, but the space must have been vast. Water dripped from somewhere nearby,
and the sound echoed off distant walls. The way the air moved made Percy
suspect the cave's ceiling was far, far above.
He heard heavy footsteps, and the twin giants Ephialtes and Otis shuffled out
of the gloom. Percy could distinguish them only by their hair-Ephialtes had the
green locks braided with silver and gold coins; Otis had the purple ponytail
braided with_were those firecrackers?
Otherwise they were dressed identically, and their outfits definitely belonged
in a nightmare. They wore matching white slacks and gold buccaneer shirts with
V-necks that showed way too much chest hair. A dozen sheathed daggers lined
their rhinestone belts. Their shoes were open-toed sandals, proving that-yes,
indeed-they had snakes for feet. The straps wrapped around the serpents'
necks. Their heads curled up where the toes should be. The snakes flicked their
tongues excitedly and turned their gold eyes in every direction, like dogs looking
out the window of a car. Maybe it had been a long time since they'd had shoes
with a view.
The giants stood in front of Percy, but they paid him no attention. Instead,
they gazed up into the darkness.
"We're here," Ephialtes announced. Despite his booming voice, his words
dissipated in the cavern, echoing until they sounded small and insignificant.
Far above, something answered, "Yes. I can see that. Those outfits are hard to
miss."
The voice made Percy's stomach drop about six inches. It sounded vaguely
female, but not at all human. Each word was a garbled hiss in multiple tones, as
if a swarm of African killer bees had learned to speak English in unison.
It wasn't Gaea. Percy was sure of that. But whatever it was, the twin giants
became nervous. They shifted on their snakes and bobbed their heads
respectfully.

"Of course, Your Ladyship," Ephialtes said. "We bring news of-"
"Why are you dressed like that?" asked the thing in the dark. She didn't seem
to be coming any closer, which was fine with Percy.
Ephialtes shot his brother an irritated look. "My brother was supposed to
wear something different. Unfortunately-"
"You said I was the knife thrower today," Otis protested.
"I said I was the knife thrower! You were supposed to be the magician! Ah,
forgive me, Your Ladyship. You don't want to hear us arguing. We came as you
requested, to bring you news. The ship is approaching."
Her Ladyship, whatever she was, made a series of violent hisses like a tire
being slashed repeatedly. With a shudder, Percy realized she was laughing.
"How long?" she asked.
"They should land in Rome shortly after daybreak, I think," Ephialtes said.
"Of course, they'll have to get past the golden boy."
He sneered, as if the golden boy was not his favorite person.
"I hope they arrive safely," Her Ladyship said. "It would spoil our fun to
have them captured too soon. Are your preparations made?"
"Yes, Your Ladyship." Otis stepped forward, and the cavern trembled. A
crack appeared under Otis's left snake.
"Careful, you dolt!" Her Ladyship snarled. "Do you want to return to
Tartarus the hard way?"
Otis scrambled back, his face slack with terror. Percy realized that the floor,
which looked like solid stone, was more like the glacier he'd walked on in
Alaska-in some places solid, in other places_not so much. He was glad he
weighed nothing in his dreams.
"There is little left holding this place together," Her Ladyship cautioned.
"Except, of course, my own skill. Centuries of Athena's rage can only be
contained so well, and the great Earth Mother churns below us in her sleep.
Between those two forces, well_my nest has quite eroded. We must hope this
child of Athena proves to be a worthy victim. She may be my last plaything."
Ephialtes gulped. He kept his eyes on the crack in the floor. "Soon it will not
matter, Your Ladyship. Gaea will rise, and we all will be rewarded. You will no

longer have to guard this place, or keep your works hidden."
"Perhaps," said the voice in the dark. "But I will miss the sweetness of my
revenge. We have worked well together over the centuries, have we not?"
The twins bowed. The coins glittered in Ephialtes's hair, and Percy realized
with nauseating certainty that some of them were silver drachma, exactly like the
one Annabeth had gotten from her mom.
Annabeth had told him that in each generation, a few children of Athena were
sent on the quest to recover the missing Parthenon statue. None had ever
succeeded.
We have worked well together over the centuries._
The giant Ephialtes had centuries' worth of coins in his braids-hundreds of
trophies. Percy pictured Annabeth standing in this dark place alone. He imagined
the giant taking that coin she carried and adding it to his collection. Percy
wanted to draw his sword and give the giant a haircut starting at the neck, but he
was powerless to act. He could only watch.
"Uh, Your Ladyship," Ephialtes said nervously. "I would remind you that
Gaea wishes the girl to be taken alive. You can torment her. Drive her insane.
Whatever you wish, of course. But her blood must be spilt on the ancient
stones."
Her Ladyship hissed. "Others could be used for that purpose."
"Y-yes," Ephialtes said. "But this girl is preferred. And the boy-the son of
Poseidon. You can see why those two would be most suited for the task."
Percy wasn't sure what that meant, but he wanted to crack the floor and send
these stupid gold-shirted twins down to oblivion. He'd never let Gaea spill his
blood for any task-and there was no way he'd let anyone hurt Annabeth.
"We will see," Her Ladyship grumbled. "Leave me now. Tend to your own
preparations. You will have your spectacle. And I_I will work in darkness."
The dream dissolved, and Percy woke with a start.
Jason was knocking at his open doorway.
"We've set down in the water," he said, looking utterly exhausted. "Your
turn."

Percy didn't want to, but he woke Annabeth. He figured even Coach Hedge
wouldn't mind their talking after curfew if it meant giving her information that
might save her life.
They stood on deck, alone except for Leo, who was still manning the helm.
The guy must have been shattered, but he refused to go to sleep.
"I don't want any more Shrimpzilla surprises," he insisted.
They'd all tried to convince Leo that the skolopendra attack hadn't been
entirely his fault, but he wouldn't listen. Percy knew how he felt. Not forgiving
himself for mistakes was one of Percy's biggest talents.
It was about four in the morning. The weather was miserable. The fog was so
thick, Percy couldn't see Festus at the end of the prow, and warm drizzle hung in
the air like a bead curtain. As they sailed into twenty-foot swells, the sea heaving
underneath them, Percy could hear poor Hazel down in her cabin_also heaving.
Despite all that, Percy was grateful to be back on the water. He preferred it to
flying through storm clouds and being attacked by man-eating birds and
enchilada-trampling pegasi.
He stood with Annabeth at the forward rail while he told her about his dream.
Percy wasn't sure how she'd take the news. Her reaction was even more
troubling than he anticipated: she didn't seem surprised.
She peered into the fog. "Percy, you have to promise me something. Don't
tell the others about this dream."
"Don't what? Annabeth-"
"What you saw was about the Mark of Athena," she said. "It won't help the
others to know. It'll only make them worry, and it'll make it harder for me to go
off on my own."
"Annabeth, you can't be serious. That thing in the dark, the big chamber with
the crumbling floor-"
"I know." Her face looked unnaturally pale, and Percy suspected it wasn't
just the fog. "But I have to do this alone."
Percy swallowed back his anger. He wasn't sure if he was mad at Annabeth,
or his dream, or the entire Greek/Roman world that had endured and shaped
human history for five thousand years with one goal in mind: to make Percy

Jackson's life suck as much as possible.
"You know what's in that cavern," he guessed. "Does it have to do with
spiders?"
"Yes," she said in a small voice.
"Then how can you even_?" He made himself stop.
Once Annabeth had made up her mind, arguing with her wouldn't do any
good. He remembered the night three and a half years ago, when they'd saved
Nico and Bianca di Angelo in Maine. Annabeth had been captured by the Titan
Atlas. For a while, Percy wasn't sure if she was alive or dead. He'd traveled
across the country to save her from the Titan. It had been the hardest few days of
his life-not just the monsters and the fighting, but the worry.
How could he intentionally let her go now, knowing she was heading into
something even more dangerous?
Then it dawned on him: the way he had felt back then, for a few days, was
probably how Annabeth had felt for the six months he had been missing with
amnesia.
That made him feel guilty, and a little bit selfish, to be standing here arguing
with her. She had to go on this quest. The fate of the world might depend on it.
But part of him wanted to say: Forget the world. He didn't want to be without
her.
Percy stared into the fog. He couldn't see anything around them, but he had
perfect bearings at sea. He knew their exact latitude and longitude. He knew the
depth of the ocean and which way the currents were flowing. He knew the ship's
speed, and could sense no rocks, sandbars, or other natural dangers in their path.
Still, being blind was unsettling.
They hadn't been attacked since they had touched the water, but the sea
seemed different. Percy had been in the Atlantic, the Pacific, even the Gulf of
Alaska, but this sea felt more ancient and powerful. Percy could sense its layers
swirling below him. Every Greek or Roman hero had sailed these waters-from
Hercules to Aeneas. Monsters still dwelt in the depths, so deeply wrapped in the
Mist that they slept most of the time; but Percy could feel them stirring,
responding to the Celestial bronze hull of a Greek trireme and the presence of

demigod blood.
They are back, the monsters seemed to say. Finally, fresh blood.
"We're not far from the Italian coast," Percy said, mostly to break the silence.
"Maybe a hundred nautical miles to the mouth of the Tiber."
"Good," Annabeth said. "By daybreak, we should-"
"Stop." Percy's skin felt washed with ice. "We have to stop."
"Why?" Annabeth asked.
"Leo, stop!" he yelled.
Too late. The other boat appeared out of the fog and rammed them head-on.
In that split second, Percy registered random details: another trireme; black sails
painted with a gorgon's head; hulking warriors, not quite human, crowded at the
front of the boat in Greek armor, swords and spears ready; and a bronze ram at
water level, slamming against the hull of the Argo II.
Annabeth and Percy were almost thrown overboard.
Festus blew fire, sending a dozen very surprised warriors screaming and
diving into the sea, but more swarmed aboard the Argo II. Grappling lines
wrapped around the rails and the mast, digging iron claws into the hull's planks.
By the time Percy had recovered his wits, the enemy was everywhere. He
couldn't see well through the fog and the dark, but the invaders seemed to be
humanlike dolphins, or dolphinlike humans. Some had gray snouts. Others held
their swords in stunted flippers. Some waddled on legs partially fused together,
while others had flippers for feet, which reminded Percy of clown shoes.
Leo sounded the alarm bell. He made a dash for the nearest ballista but went
down under a pile of chattering dolphin warriors.
Annabeth and Percy stood back-to-back, as they'd done many times before,
their weapons drawn. Percy tried to summon the waves, hoping he could push
the ships apart or even capsize the enemy vessel, but nothing happened. It almost
felt like something was pushing against his will, wresting the sea from his
control.
He raised Riptide, ready to fight, but they were hopelessly outnumbered.
Several dozen warriors lowered their spears and made a ring around them,
wisely keeping out of striking distance of Percy's sword. The dolphin-men

opened their snouts and made whistling, popping noises. Percy had never
considered just how vicious dolphin teeth looked.
He tried to think. Maybe he could break out of the circle and destroy a few
invaders, but not without the others skewering him and Annabeth.
At least the warriors didn't seem interested in killing them immediately. They
kept Percy and Annabeth contained while more of their comrades flooded
belowdecks and secured the hull. Percy could hear them breaking down the
cabin doors, scuffling with his friends. Even if the other demigods hadn't been
fast asleep, they wouldn't have stood a chance against so many.
Leo was dragged across the deck, half-conscious and groaning, and dumped
on a pile of ropes. Below, the sounds of fighting tapered off. Either the others
had been subdued or_or Percy refused to think about it.
On one side of the ring of spears, the dolphin warriors parted to let someone
through. He appeared to be fully human, but from the way the dolphins fell back
before him, he was clearly the leader. He was dressed in Greek combat armor-
sandals, kilt, and greaves, a breastplate decorated with elaborate sea monster
designs-and everything he wore was gold. Even his sword, a Greek blade like
Riptide, was gold instead of bronze.
The golden boy, Percy thought, remembering his dream. They'll have to get
past the golden boy.
What really made Percy nervous was the guy's helmet. His visor was a full
face mask fashioned like a gorgon's head-curved tusks, horrible features
pinched into a snarl, and golden snake hair curling around the face. Percy had
met gorgons before. The likeness was good-a little too good for his taste.
Annabeth turned so she was shoulder to shoulder with Percy. He wanted to
put his arm around her protectively, but he doubted she'd appreciate the gesture,
and he didn't want to give this golden guy any indication that Annabeth was his
girlfriend. No sense giving the enemy more leverage than they already had.
"Who are you?" Percy demanded. "What do you want?"
The golden warrior chuckled. With a flick of his blade, faster than Percy
could follow, he smacked Riptide out of Percy's hand and sent it flying into the
sea.

He might as well have thrown Percy's lungs into the sea, because suddenly
Percy couldn't breathe. He'd never been disarmed so easily.
"Hello, brother." The golden warrior's voice was rich and velvety, with an
exotic accent-Middle Eastern, maybe-that seemed vaguely familiar. "Always
happy to rob a fellow son of Poseidon. I am Chrysaor, the Golden Sword. As for
what I want_" He turned his metal mask toward Annabeth. "Well, that's easy. I
want everything you have."

PERCY'S HEART DID JUMPING JACKS while Chrysaor walked back and forth,
inspecting them like prized cattle. A dozen of his dolphin-man warriors stayed in
a ring around them, spears leveled at Percy's chest, while dozens more
ransacked the ship, banging and crashing around belowdecks. One carried a box
of ambrosia up the stairs. Another carried an armful of ballista bolts and a crate
of Greek fire.
"Careful with that!" Annabeth warned. "It'll blow up both our ships."
"Ha!" Chrysaor said. "We know all about Greek fire, girl. Don't worry.
We've been looting and pillaging ships on the Mare Nostrum for eons."
"Your accent sounds familiar," Percy said. "Have we met?"
"I haven't had the pleasure." Chrysaor's golden gorgon mask snarled at him,
though it was impossible to tell what his real expression might be underneath.
"But I've heard all about you, Percy Jackson. Oh, yes, the young man who saved
Olympus. And his faithful sidekick, Annabeth Chase."
"I'm nobody's sidekick," Annabeth growled. "And, Percy, his accent sounds
familiar because he sounds like his mother. We killed her in New Jersey."
Percy frowned. "I'm pretty sure that accent isn't New Jersey. Who's his-?
Oh."

It all fell into place. Aunty Em's Garden Gnome Emporium-the lair of
Medusa. She'd talked with that same accent, at least until Percy had cut off her
head.
"Medusa is your mom?" he asked. "Dude, that sucks for you."
Judging from the sound in Chrysaor's throat, he was now snarling under the
mask, too.
"You are as arrogant as the first Perseus," Chrysaor said. "But, yes, Percy
Jackson. Poseidon was my father. Medusa was my mother. After Medusa was
changed into a monster by that so-called goddess of wisdom_" The golden
mask turned on Annabeth. "That would be your mother, I believe_Medusa's
two children were trapped inside her, unable to be born. When the original
Perseus cut off Medusa's head-"
"Two children sprang out," Annabeth remembered. "Pegasus and you."
Percy blinked. "So your brother is a winged horse. But you're also my half
brother, which means all the flying horses in the world are my_You know
what? Let's forget it."
He'd learned years ago it was better not to dwell too much on who was
related to whom on the godly side of things. After Tyson the Cyclops adopted
him as a brother, Percy decided that that was about as far as he wanted to extend
the family.
"But if you're Medusa's kid," he said, "why haven't I ever heard of you?"
Chrysaor sighed in exasperation. "When your brother is Pegasus, you get
used to being forgotten. Oh, look, a winged horse! Does anyone care about me?
No!" He raised the tip of his blade to Percy's eyes. "But don't underestimate me.
My name means the Golden Sword for a reason."
"Imperial gold?" Percy guessed.
"Bah! Enchanted gold, yes. Later on, the Romans called it Imperial gold, but
I was the first to ever wield such a blade. I should have been the most famous
hero of all time! Since the legend-tellers decided to ignore me, I became a villain
instead. I resolved to put my heritage to use. As the son of Medusa, I would
inspire terror. As the son of Poseidon, I would rule the seas!"
"You became a pirate," Annabeth summed up.

Chrysaor spread his arms, which was fine with Percy since it got the sword
point away from his eyes.
"The best pirate," Chrysaor said. "I've sailed these waters for centuries,
waylaying any demigods foolish enough to explore the Mare Nostrum. This is
my territory now. And all you have is mine."
One of the dolphin warriors dragged Coach Hedge up from below.
"Let me go, you tuna fish!" Hedge bellowed. He tried to kick the warrior, but
his hoof clanged off his captor's armor. Judging from the hoof-shaped prints in
the dolphin's breastplate and helmet, the coach had already made several
attempts.
"Ah, a satyr," Chrysaor mused. "A little old and stringy, but Cyclopes will
pay well for a morsel like him. Chain him up."
"I'm nobody's goat meat!" Hedge protested.
"Gag him as well," Chrysaor decided.
"Why you gilded little-" Hedge's insult was cut short when the dolphin put
a greasy wad of canvas in his mouth. Soon the coach was trussed like a rodeo
calf and dumped with the other loot-crates of food, extra weapons, even the
magical ice chest from the mess hall.
"You can't do this!" Annabeth shouted.
Chrysaor's laughter reverberated inside his gold face mask. Percy wondered
if he was horribly disfigured under there, or if his gaze could petrify people the
way his mother's could.
"I can do anything I want," Chrysaor said. "My warriors have been trained to
perfection. They are vicious, cutthroat-"
"Dolphins," Percy noted.
Chrysaor shrugged. "Yes. So? They had some bad luck a few millennia ago,
kidnapped the wrong person. Some of their crew got turned completely into
dolphins. Others went mad. But these_these survived as hybrid creatures. When
I found them under the sea and offered them a new life, they became my loyal
crew. They fear nothing!"
One of the warriors chattered at him nervously.
"Yes, yes," Chrysaor growled. "They fear one thing, but it hardly matters.

He's not here."
An idea began tickling at the base of Percy's skull. Before he could pursue it,
more dolphin warriors climbed the stairs, hauling up the rest of his friends. Jason
was unconscious. Judging from the new bruises on his face, he'd tried to fight.
Hazel and Piper were bound hand and foot. Piper had a gag in her mouth, so
apparently the dolphins had discovered she could charmspeak. Frank was the
only one missing, though two of the dolphins had bee stings covering their faces.
Could Frank actually turn into a swarm of bees? Percy hoped so. If he was
free aboard the ship somewhere, that could be an advantage, assuming Percy
could figure out how to communicate with him.
"Excellent!" Chrysaor gloated. He directed his warriors to dump Jason by the
crossbows. Then he examined the girls like they were Christmas presents, which
made Percy grit his teeth.
"The boy is no use to me," Chrysaor said. "But we have an understanding
with the witch Circe. She will buy the women-either as slaves or trainees,
depending on their skill. But not you, lovely Annabeth."
Annabeth recoiled. "You are not taking me anywhere."
Percy's hand crept to his pocket. His pen had appeared back in his jeans. He
only needed a moment's distraction to draw his sword. Maybe if he could take
down Chrysaor quickly, his crew would panic.
He wished he knew something about Chrysaor's weaknesses. Usually
Annabeth provided him with information like that, but apparently Chrysaor
didn't have any legends, so they were both in the dark.
The golden warrior tutted. "Oh, sadly, Annabeth, you will not be staying with
me. I would love that. But you and your friend Percy are spoken for. A certain
goddess is paying a high bounty for your capture-alive, if possible, though she
didn't say you had to be unharmed."
At that moment, Piper caused the disturbance they needed. She wailed so
loudly it could be heard through her gag. Then she fainted against the nearest
guard, knocking him over. Hazel got the idea and crumpled to the deck, kicking
her legs and thrashing like she was having a fit.
Percy drew Riptide and lashed out. The blade should have gone straight

through Chrysaor's neck, but the golden warrior was unbelievably fast. He
dodged and parried as the dolphin warriors backed up, guarding the other
captives while giving their captain room to battle. They chattered and squeaked,
egging him on, and Percy got the sinking suspicion the crew was used to this sort
of entertainment. They didn't feel their leader was in any sort of danger.
Percy hadn't crossed swords with an opponent like this since_well, since
he'd battled the war god Ares. Chrysaor was that good. Many of Percy's powers
had gotten stronger over the years, but now, too late, Percy realized that
swordplay wasn't one of them.
He was rusty-at least against an adversary like Chrysaor.
They battled back and forth, thrusting and parrying. Without meaning to,
Percy heard the voice of Luke Castellan, his first sword-fighting mentor at Camp
Half-Blood, throwing out suggestions. But it didn't help.
The golden gorgon mask was too unnerving. The warm fog, the slick deck
boards, the chattering of the warriors-none of it helped. And in the corner of
his eye, Percy could see one of the dolphin-men holding a knife at Annabeth's
throat in case she tried anything tricky.
He feinted and thrust at Chrysaor's gut, but Chrysaor anticipated the move.
He knocked Percy's sword out of his hand again, and once more Riptide flew
into the sea.
Chrysaor laughed easily. He wasn't even winded. He pressed the tip of his
golden sword against Percy's sternum.
"A good try," said the pirate. "But now you'll be chained and transported to
Gaea's minions. They are quite eager to spill your blood and wake the goddess."

NOTHING LIKE TOTAL FAILURE to generate great ideas.
As Percy stood there, disarmed and outmatched, the plan formed in his head.
He was so used to Annabeth providing Greek legend information that he was
kind of stunned to actually remember something useful, but he had to act fast.
He couldn't let anything happen to his friends. He wasn't going to lose Annabeth
-not again.
Chrysaor couldn't be beat. At least not in single combat. But without his
crew_maybe then he could be overwhelmed if enough demigods attacked him
at once.
How to deal with Chrysaor's crew? Percy put the pieces together: the pirates
had been turned into dolphin-men millennia ago when they had kidnapped the
wrong person. Percy knew that story. Heck, the wrong person in question had
threatened to turn him into a dolphin. And when Chrysaor said the crew wasn't
afraid of anything, one of the dolphins had nervously corrected him. Yes,
Chrysaor said. But he's not here.
Percy glanced toward the stern and spotted Frank, in human form, peeking
out from behind a ballista, waiting. Percy resisted the urge to smile. The big guy
claimed to be clumsy and useless, but he always seemed to be in exactly the

right place when Percy needed him.
The girls_Frank_the ice chest.
It was a crazy idea. But, as usual, that's all Percy had.
"Fine!" Percy shouted, so loudly that he got everyone's attention. "Take us
away, if our captain will let you."
Chrysaor turned his golden mask. "What captain? My men searched the ship.
There is no one else."
Percy raised his hands dramatically. "The god appears only when he wishes.
But he is our leader. He runs our camp for demigods. Doesn't he, Annabeth?"
Annabeth was quick. "Yes!" She nodded enthusiastically. "Mr. D! The great
Dionysus!"
A ripple of uneasiness passed through the dolphin-men. One dropped his
sword.
"Stand fast!" Chrysaor bellowed. "There is no god on this ship. They are
trying to scare you."
"You should be scared!" Percy looked at the pirate crew with sympathy.
"Dionysus will be severely cranky with you for having delayed our voyage. He
will punish all of us. Didn't you notice the girls falling into the wine god's
madness?"
Hazel and Piper had stopped the shaking fits. They were sitting on the deck,
staring at Percy, but when he glared at them pointedly, they started hamming it
up again, trembling and flopping around like fish. The dolphin-men fell over
themselves trying to get away from their captives.
"Fakes!" Chrysaor roared. "Shut up, Percy Jackson. Your camp director is
not here. He was recalled to Olympus. This is common knowledge."
"So you admit Dionysus is our director!" Percy said.
"He was," Chrysaor corrected. "Everyone knows that."
Percy gestured at the golden warrior like he'd just betrayed himself. "You
see? We are doomed. If you don't believe me, let's check the ice chest!"
Percy stormed over to the magical cooler. No one tried to stop him. He
knocked open the lid and rummaged through the ice. There had to be one.
Please. He was rewarded with a silver-and-red can of soda. He brandished it at

the dolphin warriors as if spraying them with bug repellent.
"Behold!" Percy shouted. "The god's chosen beverage. Tremble before the
horror of Diet Coke!"
The dolphin-men began to panic. They were on the edge of retreat. Percy
could feel it.
"The god will take your ship," Percy warned. "He will finish your
transformation into dolphins, or make you insane, or transform you into insane
dolphins! Your only hope is to swim away now, quickly!"
"Ridiculous!" Chrysaor's voice turned shrill. He didn't seem sure where to
level his sword-at Percy or his own crew.
"Save yourselves!" Percy warned. "It is too late for us!"
Then he gasped and pointed to the spot where Frank was hiding. "Oh, no!
Frank is turning into a crazy dolphin!"
Nothing happened.
"I said," Percy repeated, "Frank is turning into a crazy dolphin!"
Frank stumbled out of nowhere, making a big show of grabbing his throat.
"Oh, no," he said, like he was reading from a teleprompter. "I am turning into a
crazy dolphin."
He began to change, his nose elongating into a snout, his skin becoming sleek
and gray. He fell to the deck as a dolphin, his tail thumping against the boards.
The pirate crew disbanded in terror, chattering and clicking as they dropped
their weapons, forgot the captives, ignored Chrysaor's orders, and jumped
overboard. In the confusion, Annabeth moved quickly to cut the bonds on Hazel,
Piper, and Coach Hedge.
Within seconds, Chrysaor was alone and surrounded. Percy and his friends
had no weapons except for Annabeth's knife and Hedge's hooves, but the
murderous looks on their faces evidently convinced the golden warrior he was
doomed.
He backed to the edge of the rail.
"This isn't over, Jackson," Chrysaor growled. "I will have my revenge-"
His words were cut short by Frank, who had changed form again. An eighthundred-pound grizzly bear can definitely break up a conversation. He

sideswiped Chrysaor and raked the golden mask off his helmet. Chrysaor
screamed, instantly covering his face with his arms and tumbling into the water.
They ran to the rail. Chrysaor had disappeared. Percy thought about chasing
him, but he didn't know these waters, and he didn't want to confront that guy
alone again.
"That was brilliant!" Annabeth kissed him, which made him feel a little
better.
"It was desperate," Percy corrected. "And we need to get rid of this pirate
trireme."
"Burn it?" Annabeth asked.
Percy looked at the Diet Coke in his hand. "No. I've got another idea."
It took them longer than Percy wanted. As they worked, he kept glancing at the
sea, waiting for Chrysaor and his pirate dolphins to return, but they didn't.
Leo got back on his feet, thanks to a little nectar. Piper tended to Jason's
wounds, but he wasn't as badly hurt as he looked. Mostly he was just ashamed
that he'd gotten overpowered again, which Percy could relate to.
They returned all their own supplies to the proper places and tidied up from
the invasion while Coach Hedge had a field day on the enemy ship, breaking
everything he could find with his baseball bat.
When he was done, Percy loaded the enemy's weapons back on the pirate
ship. Their storeroom was full of treasure, but Percy insisted that they touch
none of it.
"I can sense about six million dollars' worth of gold aboard," Hazel said.
"Plus diamonds, rubies-"
"Six m-million?" Frank stammered. "Canadian dollars or American?"
"Leave it," Percy said. "It's part of the tribute."
"Tribute?" Hazel asked.
"Oh." Piper nodded. "Kansas."
Jason grinned. He'd been there too when they'd met the wine god. "Crazy.
But I like it."
Finally Percy went aboard the pirate ship and opened the flood valves. He

asked Leo to drill a few extra holes in the bottom of the hull with his power
tools, and Leo was happy to oblige.
The crew of the Argo II assembled at the rail and cut the grappling lines.
Piper brought out her new horn of plenty and, on Percy's direction, willed it to
spew Diet Coke, which came out with the strength of a fire hose, dousing the
enemy deck. Percy thought it would take hours, but the ship sank remarkably
fast, filling with Diet Coke and seawater.
"Dionysus," Percy called, holding up Chrysaor's golden mask. "Or Bacchus
-whatever. You made this victory possible, even if you weren't here. Your
enemies trembled at your name_or your Diet Coke, or something. So, yeah,
thank you."
The words were hard to get out, but Percy managed not to gag. "We give this
ship to you as tribute. We hope you like it."
"Six million in gold," Leo muttered. "He'd better like it."
"Shh," Hazel scolded. "Precious metal isn't all that great. Believe me."
Percy threw the golden mask aboard the vessel, which was now sinking even
faster, brown fizzy liquid spewing out the trireme's oar slots and bubbling from
the cargo hold, turning the sea frothy brown.
Percy summoned a wave, and the enemy ship was swamped. Leo steered the
Argo II away as the pirate vessel disappeared underwater.
"Isn't that polluting?" Piper asked.
"I wouldn't worry," Jason told her. "If Bacchus likes it, the ship should
vanish."
Percy didn't know if that would happen, but he felt like he'd done all he
could. He had no faith that Dionysus would hear them or care, much less help
them in their battle against the twin giants, but he had to try.
As the Argo II headed east into the fog, Percy decided at least one good thing
had come out of his sword fight with Chrysaor. He was feeling humble-even
humble enough to pay tribute to the wine dude.
After their bout with the pirates, they decided to fly the rest of the way to Rome.
Jason insisted he was well enough to take sentry duty, along with Coach Hedge,

who was still so charged with adrenaline that every time the ship hit turbulence,
he swung his bat and yelled, "Die!"
They had a couple of hours before daybreak, so Jason suggested Percy try to
get a few more hours of sleep.
"It's fine, man," Jason said. "Give somebody else a chance to save the ship,
huh?"
Percy agreed, though once in his cabin, he had trouble falling asleep.
He stared at the bronze lantern swaying from the ceiling and thought about
how easily Chrysaor had beaten him at swordplay. The golden warrior could've
killed him without breaking a sweat. He'd only kept Percy alive because
someone else wanted to pay for the privilege of killing him later.
Percy felt like an arrow had slipped through a chink in his armor-as if he
still had the blessing of Achilles, and someone had found his weak spot. The
older he got, the longer he survived as a half-blood, the more his friends looked
up to him. They depended on him and relied on his powers. Even the Romans
had raised him on a shield and made him praetor, and he'd only known them for
a couple of weeks.
But Percy didn't feel powerful. The more heroic stuff he did, the more he
realized how limited he was. He felt like a fraud. I'm not as great as you think,
he wanted to warn his friends. His failures, like tonight, seemed to prove it.
Maybe that's why he had started to fear suffocation. It wasn't so much drowning
in the earth or the sea, but the feeling that he was sinking into too many
expectations, literally getting in over his head.
Wow_when he started having thoughts like that, he knew he'd been
spending too much time with Annabeth.
Athena had once told Percy his fatal flaw: he was supposedly too loyal to his
friends. He couldn't see the big picture. He would save a friend even if it meant
destroying the world.
At the time, Percy had shrugged this off. How could loyalty be a bad thing?
Besides, things worked out okay against the Titans. He'd saved his friends and
beaten Kronos.
Now, though, he started to wonder. He would gladly throw himself at any

monster, god, or giant to keep his friends from being hurt. But what if he wasn't
up to the task? What if someone else had to do it? That was very hard for him to
admit. He even had trouble with simple things like letting Jason take a turn at
watch. He didn't want to rely on someone else to protect him, someone who
could get hurt on his account.
Percy's mom had done that for him. She'd stayed in a bad relationship with a
gross mortal guy because she thought it would save Percy from monsters.
Grover, his best friend, had protected Percy for almost a year before Percy even
realized he was a demigod, and Grover had almost gotten killed by the Minotaur.
Percy wasn't a kid anymore. He didn't want anybody he loved taking a risk
for him. He had to be strong enough to be the protector himself. But now he was
supposed to let Annabeth go off on her own to follow the Mark of Athena,
knowing she might die. If it came to a choice-save Annabeth or let the quest
succeed-could Percy really choose the quest?
Exhaustion finally overtook him. He fell asleep, and in his nightmare, the
rumble of thunder became the laughter of the earth goddess Gaea.
Percy dreamed he was standing on the front porch of the Big House at Camp
Half-Blood. The sleeping face of Gaea appeared on the side of Half-Blood Hill
-her massive features formed from the shadows on the grassy slopes. Her lips
didn't move, but her voice echoed across the valley.
So this is your home, Gaea murmured. Take a last look, Percy Jackson. You
should have returned here. At least then you could have died with your comrades
when the Romans invade. Now your blood will be spilled far from home, on the
ancient stones, and I will rise.
The ground shook. At the top of Half-Blood Hill, Thalia's pine tree burst into
flames. Disruption rolled across the valley-grass turning to sand, forest
crumbling to dust. The river and the canoe lake dried up. The cabins and the Big
House burned to ashes. When the tremor stopped, Camp Half-Blood looked like
a wasteland after an atomic blast. The only thing left was the porch where Percy
stood.
Next to him, the dust swirled and solidified into the figure of a woman. Her
eyes were closed, as if she were sleepwalking. Her robes were forest green,

dappled with gold and white like sunlight shifting through branches. Her hair
was as black as tilled soil. Her face was beautiful, but even with a dreamy smile
on her lips she seemed cold and distant. Percy got the feeling she could watch
demigods die or cities burn, and that smile wouldn't waver.
"When I reclaim the earth," Gaea said, "I will leave this spot barren forever,
to remind me of your kind and how utterly powerless they were to stop me. It
doesn't matter when you fall, my sweet little pawn-to Phorcys or Chrysaor or
my dear twins. You will fall, and I will be there to devour you. Your only choice
now_will you fall alone? Come to me willingly; bring the girl. Perhaps I will
spare this place you love. Otherwise_"
Gaea opened her eyes. They swirled in green and black, as deep as the crust
of the earth. Gaea saw everything. Her patience was infinite. She was slow to
wake, but once she arose, her power was unstoppable.
Percy's skin tingled. His hands went numb. He looked down and realized he
was crumbling to dust, like all the monsters he'd ever defeated.
"Enjoy Tartarus, my little pawn," Gaea purred.
A metallic CLANG-CLANG-CLANG jolted Percy out of his dream. His eyes
shot open. He realized he'd just heard the landing gear being lowered.
There was a knock on his door, and Jason poked his head in. The bruises on
his face had faded. His blue eyes glittered with excitement.
"Hey, man," he said. "We're descending over Rome. You really should see
this."
The sky was brilliant blue, as if the stormy weather had never happened. The sun
rose over the distant hills, so everything below them shone and sparkled like the
entire city of Rome had just come out of the car wash.
Percy had seen big cities before. He was from New York, after all. But the
sheer vastness of Rome grabbed him by the throat and made it hard to breathe.
The city seemed to have no regard for the limits of geography. It spread through
hills and valleys, jumped over the Tiber with dozens of bridges, and just kept
sprawling to the horizon. Streets and alleys zigzagged with no rhyme or reason
through quilts of neighborhoods. Glass office buildings stood next to excavation

sites. A cathedral stood next to a line of Roman columns, which stood next to a
modern soccer stadium. In some neighborhoods, old stucco villas with red-tiled
roofs crowded the cobblestone streets, so that if Percy concentrated just on those
areas, he could imagine he was back in ancient times. Everywhere he looked,
there were wide piazzas and traffic-clogged streets. Parks cut across the city with
a crazy collection of palm trees, pines, junipers, and olive trees, as if Rome
couldn't decide what part of the world it belonged to-or maybe it just believed
all the world still belonged to Rome.
It was as if the city knew about Percy's dream of Gaea. It knew that the earth
goddess intended on razing all human civilization, and this city, which had stood
for thousands of years, was saying back to her: You wanna dissolve this city, Dirt
Face? Give it a shot.
In other words, it was the Coach Hedge of mortal cities-only taller.
"We're setting down in that park," Leo announced, pointing to a wide green
space dotted with palm trees. "Let's hope the Mist makes us look like a large
pigeon or something."
Percy wished Jason's sister Thalia were here. She'd always had a way of
bending the Mist to make people see what she wanted. Percy had never been
very good at that. He just kept thinking: Don't look at me, and hoped the
Romans below would fail to notice the giant bronze trireme descending on their
city in the middle of morning rush hour.
It seemed to work. Percy didn't notice any cars veering off the road or
Romans pointing to the sky and screaming, "Aliens!" The Argo II set down in
the grassy field and the oars retracted.
The noise of traffic was all around them, but the park itself was peaceful and
deserted. To their left, a green lawn sloped toward a line of woods. An old villa
nestled in the shade of some weird-looking pine trees with thin curvy trunks that
shot up thirty or forty feet, then sprouted into puffy canopies. They reminded
Percy of trees in those Dr. Seuss books his mom used to read him when he was
little.
To their right, snaking along the top of a hill, was a long brick wall with
notches at the top for archers-maybe a medieval defensive line, maybe Ancient

Roman. Percy wasn't sure.
To the north, about a mile away through the folds of the city, the top of the
Colosseum rose above the rooftops, looking just like it did in travel photos.
That's when Percy's legs started shaking. He was actually here. He'd thought his
trip to Alaska had been pretty exotic, but now he was in the heart of the old
Roman Empire, enemy territory for a Greek demigod. In a way, this place had
shaped his life as much as New York.
Jason pointed to the base of the archers' wall, where steps led down into
some kind of tunnel.
"I think I know where we are," he said. "That's the Tomb of the Scipios."
Percy frowned. "Scipio_Reyna's pegasus?"
"No," Annabeth put in. "They were a noble Roman family, and_wow, this
place is amazing."
Jason nodded. "I've studied maps of Rome before. I've always wanted to
come here, but_"
Nobody bothered finishing that sentence. Looking at his friends' faces, Percy
could tell they were just as much in awe as he was. They'd made it. They'd
landed in Rome-the Rome.
"Plans?" Hazel asked. "Nico has until sunset-at best. And this entire city is
supposedly getting destroyed today."
Percy shook himself out of his daze. "You're right. Annabeth_did you zero
in on that spot from your bronze map?"
Her gray eyes turned extra thunderstorm dark, which Percy could interpret
just fine: Remember what I said, buddy. Keep that dream to yourself.
"Yes," she said carefully. "It's on the Tiber River. I think I can find it, but I
should-"
"Take me along," Percy finished. "Yeah, you're right."
Annabeth glared daggers at him. "That's not-"
"Safe," he supplied. "One demigod walking through Rome alone. I'll go with
you as far as the Tiber. We can use that letter of introduction, hopefully meet the
river god Tiberinus. Maybe he can give you some help or advice. Then you can
go on alone from there."

They had a silent staring contest, but Percy didn't back down. When he and
Annabeth started dating, his mother had drummed it into his head: It's good
manners to walk your date to the door. If that was true, it had to be good
manners to walk her to the start of her epic solo death quest.
"Fine," Annabeth muttered. "Hazel, now that we're in Rome, do you think
you can pinpoint Nico's location?"
Hazel blinked, as if coming out of a trance from watching the
Percy/Annabeth Show. "Um_hopefully, if I get close enough. I'll have to walk
around the city. Frank, would you come with me?"
Frank beamed. "Absolutely."
"And, uh_Leo," Hazel added. "It might be a good idea if you came along
too. The fish-centaurs said we'd need your help with something mechanical."
"Yeah," Leo said, "no problem."
Frank's smile turned into something more like Chrysaor's mask.
Percy was no genius when it came to relationships, but even he could feel the
tension among those three. Ever since they'd gotten knocked into the Atlantic,
they hadn't acted quite the same. It wasn't just the two guys competing for
Hazel. It was like the three of them were locked together, acting out some kind
of murder mystery, but they hadn't yet discovered which of them was the victim.
Piper drew her knife and set it on the rail. "Jason and I can watch the ship for
now. I'll see what Katoptris can show me. But, Hazel, if you guys get a fix on
Nico's location, don't go in there by yourselves. Come back and get us. It'll take
all of us to fight the giants."
She didn't say the obvious: even all of them together wouldn't be enough,
unless they had a god on their side. Percy decided not to bring that up.
"Good idea," Percy said. "How about we plan to meet back here at_what?"
"Three this afternoon?" Jason suggested. "That's probably the latest we could
rendezvous and still hope to fight the giants and save Nico. If something happens
to change the plan, try to send an Iris-message."
The others nodded in agreement, but Percy noticed several of them glancing
at Annabeth. Another thing no one wanted to say: Annabeth would be on a
different schedule. She might be back at three, or much later, or never. But she

would be on her own, searching for the Athena Parthenos.
Coach Hedge grunted. "That'll give me time to eat the coconuts-I mean dig
the coconuts out of our hull. Percy, Annabeth_I don't like you two going off on
your own. Just remember: behave. If I hear about any funny business, I will
ground you until the Styx freezes over."
The idea of getting grounded when they were about to risk their lives was so
ridiculous, Percy couldn't help smiling.
"We'll be back soon," he promised. He looked around at his friends, trying
not to feel like this was the last time they'd ever be together. "Good luck,
everyone."
Leo lowered the gangplank, and Percy and Annabeth were first off the ship.

UNDER DIFFERENT CIRCUMSTANCES, wandering through Rome with Annabeth
would have been pretty awesome. They held hands as they navigated the
winding streets, dodging cars and crazy Vespa drivers, squeezing through mobs
of tourists, and wading through oceans of pigeons. The day warmed up quickly.
Once they got away from the car exhaust on the main roads, the air smelled of
baking bread and freshly cut flowers.
They aimed for the Colosseum because that was an easy landmark, but
getting there proved harder than Percy anticipated. As big and confusing as the
city had looked from above, it was even more so on the ground. Several times
they got lost on dead-end streets. They found beautiful fountains and huge
monuments by accident.
Annabeth commented on the architecture, but Percy kept his eyes open for
other things. Once he spotted a glowing purple ghost-a Lar-glaring at them
from the window of an apartment building. Another time he saw a white-robed
woman-maybe a nymph or a goddess-holding a wicked-looking knife,
slipping between ruined columns in a public park. Nothing attacked them, but
Percy felt like they were being watched, and the watchers were not friendly.
Finally they reached the Colosseum, where a dozen guys in cheap gladiator

costumes were scuffling with the police-plastic swords versus batons. Percy
wasn't sure what that was about, but he and Annabeth decided to keep walking.
Sometimes mortals were even stranger than monsters.
They made their way west, stopping every once in a while to ask directions to
the river. Percy hadn't considered that-duh-people in Italy spoke Italian,
while he did not. As it turned out, though, that wasn't much of a problem. The
few times someone approached them on the street and asked a question, Percy
just looked at them in confusion, and they switched to English.
Next discovery: the Italians used euros, and Percy didn't have any. He
regretted this as soon as he found a tourist shop that sold sodas. By then it was
almost noon, getting really hot, and Percy was starting to wish he had a trireme
filled with Diet Coke.
Annabeth solved the problem. She dug around in her backpack, brought out
Daedalus's laptop, and typed in a few commands. A plastic card ejected from a
slot in the side.
Annabeth waved it triumphantly. "International credit card. For
emergencies."
Percy stared at her in amazement. "How did you-? No. Never mind. I don't
want to know. Just keep being awesome."
The sodas helped, but they were still hot and tired by the time they arrived at
the Tiber River. The shore was edged with a stone embankment. A chaotic
assortment of warehouses, apartments, stores, and cafes crowded the riverfront.
The Tiber itself was wide, lazy, and caramel-colored. A few tall cypress trees
hung over the banks. The nearest bridge looked fairly new, made from iron
girders, but right next to it stood a crumbling line of stone arches that stopped
halfway across the river-ruins that might've been left over from the days of the
Caesars.
"This is it." Annabeth pointed at the old stone bridge. "I recognize that from
the map. But what do we do now?"
Percy was glad she had said we. He didn't want to leave her yet. In fact, he
wasn't sure he could make himself do it when the time came. Gaea's words
came back to him: Will you fall alone?

He stared at the river, wondering how they could make contact with the god
Tiberinus. He didn't really want to jump in. The Tiber didn't look much cleaner
than the East River back home, where he'd had too many encounters with
grouchy river spirits.
He gestured to a nearby cafe with tables overlooking the water. "It's about
lunchtime. How about we try your credit card again?"
Even though it was noon, the place was empty. They picked a table outside
by the river, and a waiter hurried over. He looked a bit surprised to see them-
especially when they said they wanted lunch.
"American?" he asked, with a pained smile.
"Yes," Annabeth said.
"And I'd love a pizza," Percy said.
The waiter looked like he was trying to swallow a euro coin. "Of course you
would, signor. And let me guess: a Coca-Cola? With ice?"
"Awesome," Percy said. He didn't understand why the guy was giving him
such a sour face. It wasn't like Percy had asked for a blue Coke.
Annabeth ordered a panini and some fizzy water. After the waiter left, she
smiled at Percy. "I think Italians eat a lot later in the day. They don't put ice in
their drinks. And they only do pizza for tourists."
"Oh." Percy shrugged. "The best Italian food, and they don't even eat it?"
"I wouldn't say that in front of the waiter."
They held hands across the table. Percy was content just to look at Annabeth
in the sunlight. It always made her hair so bright and warm. Her eyes took on the
colors of the sky and the cobblestones, alternately brown or blue.
He wondered if he should tell Annabeth his dream about Gaea destroying
Camp Half-Blood. He decided against it. She didn't need anything else to worry
about-not with what she was facing.
But it made him wonder_what would have happened if they hadn't scared
off Chrysaor's pirates? Percy and Annabeth would've been put in chains and
taken to Gaea's minions. Their blood would have been spilled on ancient stones.
Percy guessed that meant they would've been taken to Greece for some big
horrible sacrifice. But Annabeth and he had been in plenty of bad situations

together. They could've figured out an escape plan, saved the day_and
Annabeth wouldn't be facing this solo quest in Rome.
It doesn't matter when you fall, Gaea had said.
Percy knew it was a horrible wish, but he almost regretted that they hadn't
been captured at sea. At least Annabeth and he would've been together.
"You shouldn't feel ashamed," Annabeth said. "You're thinking about
Chrysaor, aren't you? Swords can't solve every problem. You saved us in the
end."
In spite of himself, Percy smiled. "How do you do that? You always know
what I'm thinking."
"I know you," she said.
And you like me anyway? Percy wanted to ask, but he held it back.
"Percy," she said, "you can't carry the weight of this whole quest. It's
impossible. That's why there are seven of us. And you'll have to let me search
for the Athena Parthenos on my own."
"I missed you," he confessed. "For months. A huge chunk of our lives was
taken away. If I lost you again-"
Lunch arrived. The waiter looked much calmer. Having accepted the fact that
they were clueless Americans, he had apparently decided to forgive them and
treat them politely.
"It is a beautiful view," he said, nodding toward the river. "Enjoy, please."
Once he left, they ate in silence. The pizza was a bland, doughy square with
not a lot of cheese. Maybe, Percy thought, that's why Romans didn't eat it. Poor
Romans.
"You'll have to trust me," Annabeth said. Percy almost thought she was
talking to her sandwich, because she didn't meet his eyes. "You've got to
believe I'll come back."
He swallowed another bite. "I believe in you. That's not the problem. But
come back from where?"
The sound of a Vespa interrupted them. Percy looked along the riverfront and
did a double take. The motor scooter was an old-fashioned model: big and baby
blue. The driver was a guy in a silky gray suit. Behind him sat a younger woman

with a headscarf, her hands around the man's waist. They weaved between cafe
tables and puttered to a stop next to Percy and Annabeth.
"Why, hello," the man said. His voice was deep, almost croaky, like a movie
actor's. His hair was short and greased back from his craggy face. He was
handsome in a 1950s dad-on-television way. Even his clothes seemed oldfashioned. When he stepped off his bike, the waistline of his slacks was way
higher than normal, but somehow he still managed to look manly and stylish and
not like a total goober. Percy had trouble guessing his age-maybe thirtysomething, though the man's fashion and manner seemed grandfatherish.
The woman slid off the bike. "We've had the most lovely morning," she said
breathlessly.
She looked about twenty-one, also dressed in an old-fashioned style. Her
ankle-length marigold skirt and white blouse were pinched together with a large
leather belt, giving her the narrowest waist Percy had ever seen. When she
removed her scarf, her short wavy black hair bounced into perfect shape. She
had dark playful eyes and a brilliant smile. Percy had seen naiads that looked
less pixieish than this lady.
Annabeth's sandwich fell out of her hands. "Oh, gods. How-how_ ?"
She seemed so stunned that Percy figured he ought to know these two.
"You guys do look familiar," he decided. He thought he might have seen their
faces on television. It seemed like they were from an old show, but that couldn't
be right. They hadn't aged at all. Nevertheless, he pointed at the guy and took a
guess. "Are you that guy on Mad Men?"
"Percy!" Annabeth looked horrified.
"What?" he protested. "I don't watch a lot of TV."
"That's Gregory Peck!" Annabeth's eyes were wide, and her mouth kept
falling open. "And_oh gods! Audrey Hepburn! I know this movie. Roman
Holiday. But that was from the 1950s. How-?"
"Oh, my dear!" The woman twirled like an air spirit and sat down at their
table. "I'm afraid you've mistaken me for someone else! My name is Rhea
Silvia. I was the mother to Romulus and Remus, thousands of years ago. But
you're so kind to think I look as young as the 1950s. And this is my husband_"

"Tiberinus," said Gregory Peck, thrusting out his hand to Percy in a manly
way. "God of the River Tiber."
Percy shook his hand. The guy smelled of aftershave. Of course, if Percy
were the Tiber River, he'd probably want to mask the smell with cologne too.
"Uh, hi," Percy said. "Do you two always look like American movie stars?"
"Do we?" Tiberinus frowned and studied his clothes. "I'm not sure, actually.
The migration of Western civilization goes both ways, you know. Rome affected
the world, but the world also affects Rome. There does seem to be a lot of
American influence lately. I've rather lost track over the centuries."
"Okay," Percy said. "But_you're here to help?"
"My naiads told me you two were here." Tiberinus cast his dark eyes toward
Annabeth. "You have the map, my dear? And your letter of introduction?"
"Uh_" Annabeth handed him the letter and the disk of bronze. She was
staring at the river god so intently Percy started to feel jealous.
"S-so_" she stammered, "you've helped other children of Athena with this
quest?"
"Oh, my dear!" The pretty lady, Rhea Silvia, put her hand on Annabeth's
shoulder. "Tiberinus is ever so helpful. He saved my children Romulus and
Remus, you know, and brought them to the wolf goddess Lupa. Later, when that
old king Numen tried to kill me, Tiberinus took pity on me and made me his
wife. I've been ruling the river kingdom at his side ever since. He's just
dreamy!"
"Thank you, my dear," Tiberinus said with a wry smile. "And, yes, Annabeth
Chase, I've helped many of your siblings_to at least begin their journey safely.
A shame all of them died painfully later on. Well, your documents seem in
order. We should get going. The Mark of Athena awaits!"
Percy gripped Annabeth's hand-probably a little too tight. "Tiberinus, let
me go with her. Just a little farther."
Rhea Silvia laughed sweetly. "But you can't, silly boy. You must return to
your ship and gather your other friends. Confront the giants! The way will
appear in your friend Piper's knife. Annabeth has a different path. She must
walk alone."

"Indeed," Tiberinus said. "Annabeth must face the guardian of the shrine by
herself. It is the only way. And Percy Jackson, you have less time than you
realized to rescue your friend in the jar. You must hurry."
Percy's pizza felt like a cement lump in his stomach. "But-"
"It's all right, Percy." Annabeth squeezed his hand. "I need to do this."
He started to protest. Her expression stopped him. She was terrified but doing
her best to hide it-for his sake. If he tried to argue, he would only make things
harder for her. Or worse, he might convince her to stay. Then she would have to
live with the knowledge that she'd backed down from her biggest challenge_
assuming that they survived at all, with Rome about to get leveled and Gaea
about to rise and destroy the world. The Athena statue held the key to defeating
the giants. Percy didn't know why or how, but Annabeth was the only one who
could find it.
"You're right," he said, forcing out the words. "Be safe."
Rhea Silvia giggled like it was a ridiculous comment. "Safe? Not at all! But
necessary. Come, Annabeth, my dear. We will show you where your path starts.
After that, you're on your own."
Annabeth kissed Percy. She hesitated, like she was wondering what else to
say. Then she shouldered her backpack and climbed on the back of the scooter.
Percy hated it. He would've preferred to fight any monster in the world. He
would've preferred a rematch with Chrysaor. But he forced himself to stay in his
chair and watch as Annabeth motored off through the streets of Rome with
Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn.

ANNABETH FIGURED IT COULD'VE BEEN WORSE. If she had to go on a horrifying
solo quest, at least she'd gotten to have lunch with Percy on the banks of the
Tiber first. Now she got to take a scooter ride with Gregory Peck.
She only knew about that old movie because of her dad. Over the past few
years, since the two of them had made up, they'd spent more time together, and
she had learned that her dad had a sappy side. Sure, he liked military history,
weapons, and biplanes, but he also loved old films, especially romantic comedies
from the 1940s and '50s. Roman Holiday was one of his favorites. He'd made
Annabeth watch it.
She thought the plot was silly-a princess escapes her minders and falls in
love with an American journalist in Rome-but she suspected her dad liked it
because it reminded him of his own romance with the goddess Athena: another
impossible pairing that couldn't end happily. Her dad was nothing like Gregory
Peck. Athena certainly wasn't anything like Audrey Hepburn. But Annabeth
knew that people saw what they wanted to see. They didn't need the Mist to
warp their perceptions.
As the baby-blue scooter zipped through the streets of Rome, the goddess
Rhea Silvia gave Annabeth a running commentary on how the city had changed

over the centuries.
"The Sublician Bridge was over there," she said, pointing to a bend in the
Tiber. "You know, where Horatius and his two friends defended the city from an
invading army? Now, there was a brave Roman!"
"And look, dear," Tiberinus added, "that's the place where Romulus and
Remus washed ashore."
He seemed to be talking about a spot on the riverside where some ducks were
making a nest out of torn-up plastic bags and candy wrappers.
"Ah, yes," Rhea Silvia sighed happily. "You were so kind to flood yourself
and wash my babies ashore for the wolves to find."
"It was nothing," Tiberinus said.
Annabeth felt light-headed. The river god was talking about something that
had happened thousands of years ago, when this area was nothing but marshes
and maybe some shacks. Tiberinus saved two babies, one of whom went on to
found the world's greatest empire. It was nothing.
Rhea Silvia pointed out a large modern apartment building. "That used to be
a temple to Venus. Then it was a church. Then a palace. Then an apartment
building. It burned down three times. Now it's an apartment building again. And
that spot right there-"
"Please," Annabeth said. "You're making me dizzy."
Rhea Silvia laughed. "I'm sorry, dear. Layers upon layers of history here, but
it's nothing compared to Greece. Athens was old when Rome was a collection of
mud huts. You'll see, if you survive."
"Not helping," Annabeth muttered.
"Here we are," Tiberinus announced. He pulled over in front of a large
marble building, the facade covered in city grime but still beautiful. Ornate
carvings of Roman gods decorated the roofline. The massive entrance was
barred with iron gates, heavily padlocked.
"I'm going in there?" Annabeth wished she'd brought Leo, or at least
borrowed some wire cutters from his tool belt.
Rhea Silvia covered her mouth and giggled. "No, my dear. Not in it. Under
it."

Tiberinus pointed to a set of stone steps on the side of the building-the sort
that would have led to a basement apartment if this place were in Manhattan.
"Rome is chaotic aboveground," Tiberinus said, "but that's nothing compared
to below ground. You must descend into the buried city, Annabeth Chase. Find
the altar of the foreign god. The failures of your predecessors will guide you.
After that_I do not know."
Annabeth's backpack felt heavy on her shoulders. She'd been studying the
bronze map for days now, scouring Daedalus's laptop for information.
Unfortunately, the few things she had learned made this quest seem even more
impossible. "My siblings_none of them made it all the way to the shrine, did
they."
Tiberinus shook his head. "But you know what prize awaits, if you can
liberate it."
"Yes," Annabeth said.
"It could bring peace to the children of Greece and Rome," Rhea Silvia said.
"It could change the course of the coming war."
"If I live," Annabeth said.
Tiberinus nodded sadly. "Because you also understand the guardian you must
face?"
Annabeth remembered the spiders at Fort Sumter, and the dream Percy had
described-the hissing voice in the dark. "Yes."
Rhea Silvia looked at her husband. "She is brave. Perhaps she is stronger than
the others."
"I hope so," said the river god. "Good-bye, Annabeth Chase. And good luck."
Rhea Silvia beamed. "We have such a lovely afternoon planned! Off to
shop!"
Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn sped off on their baby-blue motorbike.
Then Annabeth turned and descended the steps alone.
She'd been underground plenty of times.
But halfway down the steps, she realized just how long it had been since
she'd adventured by herself. She froze.

Gods_she hadn't done something like this since she was a kid. After running
away from home, she'd spent a few weeks surviving on her own, living in
alleyways and hiding from monsters until Thalia and Luke took her under their
wings. Then, once she'd arrived at Camp Half-Blood, she'd lived there until she
was twelve. After that, all her quests had been with Percy or her other friends.
The last time she had felt this scared and alone, she'd been seven years old.
She remembered the day Thalia, Luke, and she had wandered into a Cyclopes'
lair in Brooklyn. Thalia and Luke had gotten captured, and Annabeth had had to
cut them free. She still remembered shivering in a dark corner of that dilapidated
mansion, listening to the Cyclopes mimicking her friends' voices, trying to trick
her into coming out into the open.
What if this is a trick, too? she wondered. What if those other children of
Athena died because Tiberinus and Rhea Silvia led them into a trap? Would
Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn do something like that?
She forced herself to keep going. She had no choice. If the Athena Parthenos
was really down here, it could decide the fate of the war. More importantly, it
could help her mom. Athena needed her.
At the bottom of the steps she reached an old wooden door with an iron pull
ring. Above the ring was a metal plate with a keyhole. Annabeth started
considering ways to pick the lock, but as soon as she touched the pull ring, a
fiery shape burned in the middle of the door: the silhouette of Athena's owl.
Smoke plumed from the keyhole. The door swung inward.
Annabeth looked up one last time. At the top of the stairwell, the sky was a
square of brilliant blue. Mortals would be enjoying the warm afternoon. Couples
would be holding hands at the cafes. Tourists would be bustling through the
shops and museums. Regular Romans would be going about their daily business,
probably not considering the thousands of years of history under their feet, and
definitely unaware of the spirits, gods, and monsters that still dwelt here, or the
fact that their city might be destroyed today unless a certain group of demigods
succeeded in stopping the giants.
Annabeth stepped through the doorway.
She found herself in a basement that was an architectural cyborg. Ancient

brick walls were crisscrossed with modern electrical cables and plumbing. The
ceiling was held up with a combination of steel scaffolding and old granite
Roman columns.
The front half of the basement was stacked with crates. Out of curiosity,
Annabeth opened a few. Some were packed with multicolored spools of string-
like for kites or arts and crafts projects. Other crates were full of cheap plastic
gladiator swords. Maybe at one point this had been a storage area for a tourist
shop.
In the back of the basement, the floor had been excavated, revealing another
set of steps-these of white stone-leading still deeper underground.
Annabeth crept to the edge. Even with the glow cast by her dagger, it was too
dark to see below. She rested her hand on the wall and found a light switch.
She flipped it. Glaring white fluorescent bulbs illuminated the stairs. Below,
she saw a mosaic floor decorated with deer and fauns-maybe a room from an
Ancient Roman villa, just stashed away under this modern basement along with
the crates of string and plastic swords.
She climbed down. The room was about twenty feet square. The walls had
once been brightly painted, but most of the frescoes had peeled or faded. The
only exit was a hole dug in one corner of the floor where the mosaic had been
pulled up. Annabeth crouched next to the opening. It dropped straight down into
a larger cavern, but Annabeth couldn't see the bottom.
She heard running water maybe thirty or forty feet below. The air didn't
smell like a sewer-just old and musty, and slightly sweet, like moldering
flowers. Perhaps it was an old water line from the aqueducts. There was no way
down.
"I'm not jumping," she muttered to herself.
As if in reply, something glowed in the darkness. The Mark of Athena blazed
to life at the bottom of the cavern, revealing glistening brickwork along a
subterranean canal forty feet below. The fiery owl seemed to be taunting her:
Well, this is the way, kid. So you'd better figure something out.
Annabeth considered her options. Too dangerous to jump. No ladders or
ropes. She thought about borrowing some metal scaffolding from above to use as

a fire pole, but it was all bolted in place. Besides, she didn't want to cause the
building to collapse on top of her.
Frustration crawled through her like an army of termites. She had spent her
life watching other demigods gain amazing powers. Percy could control water. If
he were here, he could raise the water level and simply float down. Hazel, from
what she had said, could find her way underground with flawless accuracy and
even create or change the course of tunnels. She could easily make a new path.
Leo would pull just the right tools from his belt and build something to do the
job. Frank could turn into a bird. Jason could simply control the wind and float
down. Even Piper with her charmspeak_she could have convinced Tiberinus
and Rhea Silvia to be a little more helpful.
What did Annabeth have? A bronze dagger that did nothing special, and a
cursed silver coin. She had her backpack with Daedalus's laptop, a water bottle,
a few pieces of ambrosia for emergencies, and a box of matches-probably
useless, but her dad had drilled into her head that she should always have a way
to make fire.
She had no amazing powers. Even her one true magic item, her New York
Yankees cap of invisibility, had stopped working, and was still back in her cabin
on the Argo II.
You've got your intelligence, a voice said. Annabeth wondered if Athena was
speaking to her, but that was probably just wishful thinking.
Intelligence_like Athena's favorite hero, Odysseus. He'd won the Trojan
War with cleverness, not strength. He had overcome all sorts of monsters and
hardships with his quick wits. That's what Athena valued.
Wisdom's daughter walks alone.
That didn't mean just without other people, Annabeth realized. It meant
without any special powers.
Okay_so how to get down there safely and make sure she had a way to get
out again if necessary?
She climbed back to the basement and stared at the open crates. Kite string
and plastic swords. The idea that came to her was so ridiculous, she almost had
to laugh; but it was better than nothing.

She set to work. Her hands seemed to know exactly what to do. Sometimes
that happened, like when she was helping Leo with the ship's machinery or
drawing architectural plans on the computer. She'd never made anything out of
kite string and plastic swords, but it seemed easy, natural. Within minutes she'd
used a dozen balls of string and a crateful of swords to create a makeshift rope
ladder-a braided line, woven for strength yet not too thick, with swords tied at
two-foot intervals to serve as hand-and footholds.
As a test, she tied one end around a support column and leaned on the rope
with all her weight. The plastic swords bent under her, but they provided some
extra bulk to the knots in the cord, so at least she could keep a better grip.
The ladder wouldn't win any design awards, but it might get her to the
bottom of the cavern safely. First, she stuffed her backpack with the leftover
spools of string. She wasn't sure why, but they were one more resource, and not
too heavy.
She headed back to the hole in the mosaic floor. She secured one end of her
ladder to the nearest piece of scaffolding, lowered the rope into the cavern, and
shinnied down.

AS ANNABETH HUNG IN THE AIR, descending hand over hand with the ladder
swinging wildly, she thanked Chiron for all those years of training on the
climbing course at Camp Half-Blood. She'd complained loudly and often that
rope climbing would never help her defeat a monster. Chiron had just smiled,
like he knew this day would come.
Finally Annabeth made it to the bottom. She missed the brickwork edge and
landed in the canal, but it turned out to be only a few inches deep. Freezing
water soaked into her running shoes.
She held up her glowing dagger. The shallow channel ran down the middle of
a brickwork tunnel. Every few yards, ceramic pipes jutted from the walls. She
guessed that the pipes were drains, part of the ancient Roman plumbing system,
though it was amazing to her that a tunnel like this had survived, crowded
underground with all the other centuries' worth of pipes, basements, and sewers.
A sudden thought chilled her even more than the water. A few years ago,
Percy and she had gone on a quest in Daedalus's labyrinth-a secret network of
tunnels and rooms, heavily enchanted and trapped, which ran under all the cities
of America.
When Daedalus died in the Battle of the Labyrinth, the entire maze had

collapsed-or so Annabeth believed. But what if that was only in America?
What if this was an older version of the labyrinth? Daedalus once told her that
his maze had a life of its own. It was constantly growing and changing. Maybe
the labyrinth could regenerate, like monsters. That would make sense. It was an
archetypal force, as Chiron would say-something that could never really die.
If this was part of the labyrinth_
Annabeth decided not to dwell on that, but she also decided not to assume her
directions were accurate. The labyrinth made distance meaningless. If she wasn't
careful, she could walk twenty feet in the wrong direction and end up in Poland.
Just to be safe, she tied a new ball of string to the end of her rope ladder. She
could unravel it behind her as she explored. An old trick, but a good one.
She debated which way to go. The tunnel seemed the same in both directions.
Then, about fifty feet to her left, the Mark of Athena blazed against the wall.
Annabeth could swear it was glaring at her with those big fiery eyes, as if to say,
What's your problem? Hurry up!
She was really starting to hate that owl.
By the time she reached the spot, the image had faded, and she'd run out of
string on her first spool.
As she was attaching a new line, she glanced across the tunnel. There was a
broken section in the brickwork, as if a sledgehammer had knocked a hole in the
wall. She crossed to take a look. Sticking her dagger through the opening for
light, Annabeth could see a lower chamber, long and narrow, with a mosaic
floor, painted walls, and benches running down either side. It was shaped sort of
like a subway car.
She stuck her head into the hole, hoping nothing would bite it off. At the near
end of the room was a bricked-off doorway. At the far end was a stone table, or
maybe an altar.
Hmm_The water tunnel kept going, but Annabeth was sure this was the
way. She remembered what Tiberinus had said: Find the altar of the foreign god.
There didn't seem to be any exits from the altar room, but it was a short drop
onto the bench below. She should be able to climb out again with no problem.
Still holding her string, she lowered herself down.

The room's ceiling was barrel-shaped with brick arches, but Annabeth didn't
like the look of the supports. Directly above her head, on the arch nearest to the
bricked-in doorway, the capstone was cracked in half. Stress fractures ran across
the ceiling. The place had probably been intact for two thousand years, but she
decided she'd rather not spend too much time here. With her luck, it would
collapse in the next two minutes.
The floor was a long narrow mosaic with seven pictures in a row, like a time
line. At Annabeth's feet was a raven. Next was a lion. Several others looked like
Roman warriors with various weapons. The rest were too damaged or covered in
dust for Annabeth to make out details. The benches on either side were littered
with broken pottery. The walls were painted with scenes of a banquet: a robed
man with a curved cap like an ice cream scoop, sitting next to a larger guy who
radiated sunbeams. Standing around them were torchbearers and servants, and
various animals like crows and lions wandered in the background. Annabeth
wasn't sure what the picture represented, but it didn't remind her of any Greek
legends that she knew.
At the far end of the room, the altar was elaborately carved with a frieze
showing the man with the ice-cream-scoop hat holding a knife to the neck of a
bull. On the altar stood a stone figure of a man sunk to his knees in rock, a
dagger and a torch in his outraised hands. Again, Annabeth had no idea what
those images meant.
She took one step toward the altar. Her foot went CRUNCH. She looked
down and realized she'd just put her shoe through a human rib cage.
Annabeth swallowed back a scream. Where had that come from? She had
glanced down only a moment before and hadn't seen any bones. Now the floor
was littered with them. The rib cage was obviously old. It crumbled to dust as
she removed her foot. Nearby lay a corroded bronze dagger very much like her
own. Either this dead person had been carrying the weapon, or it had killed him.
She held out her blade to see in front of her. A little farther down the mosaic
path sprawled a more complete skeleton in the remains of an embroidered red
doublet, like a man from the Renaissance. His frilled collar and skull had been
badly burned, as if the guy had decided to wash his hair with a blowtorch.

Wonderful, Annabeth thought. She lifted her eyes to the altar statue, which
held a dagger and a torch.
Some kind of test, Annabeth decided. These two guys had failed. Correction:
not just two guys. More bones and scraps of clothing were scattered all the way
to the altar. She couldn't guess how many skeletons were represented, but she
was willing to bet they were all demigods from the past, children of Athena on
the same quest.
"I will not be another skeleton on your floor," she called to the statue, hoping
she sounded brave.
A girl, said a watery voice, echoing through the room. Girls are not allowed.
A female demigod, said a second voice. Inexcusable.
The chamber rumbled. Dust fell from the cracked ceiling. Annabeth bolted
for the hole she'd come through, but it had disappeared. Her string had been
severed. She clambered up on the bench and pounded on the wall where the hole
had been, hoping the hole's absence was just an illusion, but the wall felt solid.
She was trapped.
Along the benches, a dozen ghosts shimmered into existence-glowing
purple men in Roman togas, like the Lares she'd seen at Camp Jupiter. They
glared at her as if she'd interrupted their meeting.
She did the only thing she could. She stepped down from the bench and put
her back to the bricked-in doorway. She tried to look confident, though the
scowling purple ghosts and the demigod skeletons at her feet made her want to
turtle in her T-shirt and scream.
"I'm a child of Athena," she said, as boldly as she could manage.
"A Greek," one of the ghosts said with disgust. "That is even worse."
At the other end of the chamber, an old-looking ghost rose with some
difficulty (do ghosts have arthritis?) and stood by the altar, his dark eyes fixed
on Annabeth. Her first thought was that he looked like the pope. He had a
glittering robe, a pointed hat, and a shepherd's crook.
"This is the cavern of Mithras," said the old ghost. "You have disturbed our
sacred rituals. You cannot look upon our mysteries and live."
"I don't want to look upon your mysteries," Annabeth assured him. "I'm

following the Mark of Athena. Show me the exit, and I'll be on my way."
Her voice sounded calm, which surprised her. She had no idea how to get out
of here, but she knew she had to succeed where her siblings had failed. Her path
led farther on-deeper into the underground layers of Rome.
The failures of your predecessors will guide you, Tiberinus had said. After
that_I do not know.
The ghosts mumbled to each other in Latin. Annabeth caught a few unkind
words about female demigods and Athena.
Finally the ghost with the pope hat struck his shepherd's crook against the
floor. The other Lares fell silent.
"Your Greek goddess is powerless here," said the pope. "Mithras is the god
of Roman warriors! He is the god of the legion, the god of the empire!"
"He wasn't even Roman," Annabeth protested. "Wasn't he, like, Persian or
something?"
"Sacrilege!" the old man yelped, banging his staff on the floor a few more
times. "Mithras protects us! I am the pater of this brotherhood-"
"The father," Annabeth translated.
"Do not interrupt! As pater, I must protect our mysteries."
"What mysteries?" Annabeth asked. "A dozen dead guys in togas sitting
around in a cave?"
The ghosts muttered and complained, until the pater got them under control
with a taxicab whistle. The old guy had a good set of lungs. "You are clearly an
unbeliever. Like the others, you must die."
The others. Annabeth made an effort not to look at the skeletons.
Her mind worked furiously, grasping for anything she knew about Mithras.
He had a secret cult for warriors. He was popular in the legion. He was one of
the gods who'd supplanted Athena as a war deity. Aphrodite had mentioned him
during their teatime chat in Charleston. Aside from that, Annabeth had no idea.
Mithras just wasn't one of the gods they talked about at Camp Half-Blood. She
doubted the ghosts would wait while she whipped out Daedalus's laptop and did
a search.
She scanned the floor mosaic-seven pictures in a row. She studied the

ghosts and noticed all of them wore some sort of badge on their toga-a raven,
or a torch, or a bow.
"You have rites of passage," she blurted out. "Seven levels of membership.
And the top level is the pater."
The ghosts let out a collective gasp. Then they all began shouting at once.
"How does she know this?" one demanded.
"The girl has gleaned our secrets!"
"Silence!" the pater ordered.
"But she might know about the ordeals!" another cried.
"The ordeals!" Annabeth said. "I know about them!"
Another round of incredulous gasping.
"Ridiculous!" The pater yelled. "The girl lies! Daughter of Athena, choose
your way of death. If you do not choose, the god will choose for you!"
"Fire or dagger," Annabeth guessed.
Even the pater looked stunned. Apparently he hadn't remembered there were
victims of past punishments lying on the floor.
"How-how did you_ ?" He gulped. "Who are you?"
"A child of Athena," Annabeth said again. "But not just any child. I am_uh,
the mater in my sisterhood. The magna mater, in fact. There are no mysteries to
me. Mithras cannot hide anything from my sight."
"The magna mater!" a ghost wailed in despair. "The big mother!"
"Kill her!" One of the ghosts charged, his hands out to strangle her, but he
passed right through her.
"You're dead," Annabeth reminded him. "Sit down."
The ghost looked embarrassed and took his seat.
"We do not need to kill you ourselves," the pater growled. "Mithras shall do
that for us!"
The statue on the altar began to glow.
Annabeth pressed her hands against the bricked-in doorway at her back. That
had to be the exit. The mortar was crumbling, but it was not weak enough for her
to break through with brute force.
She looked desperately around the room-the cracked ceiling, the floor

mosaic, the wall paintings, and the carved altar. She began to talk, pulling
deductions from the top of her head.
"It is no good," she said. "I know all. You test your initiates with fire because
the torch is the symbol of Mithras. His other symbol is the dagger, which is why
you can also be tested with the blade. You want to kill me, just as_uh, as
Mithras killed the sacred bull."
It was a total guess, but the altar showed Mithras killing a bull, so Annabeth
figured it must be important. The ghosts wailed and covered their ears. Some
slapped their faces as if to wake up from a bad dream.
"The big mother knows!" one said. "It is impossible!"
Unless you look around the room, Annabeth thought, her confidence
growing.
She glared at the ghost who had just spoken. He had a raven badge on his
toga-the same symbol as on the floor at her feet.
"You are just a raven," she scolded. "That is the lowest rank. Be silent and let
me speak to your pater."
The ghost cringed. "Mercy! Mercy!"
At the front of the room, the pater trembled-either from rage or fear,
Annabeth wasn't sure which. His pope hat tilted sideways on his head like a gas
gauge dropping toward empty. "Truly, you know much, big mother. Your
wisdom is great, but that is all the more reason why you cannot leave. The
weaver warned us you would come."
"The weaver_" Annabeth realized with a sinking feeling what the pater was
talking about: the thing in the dark from Percy's dream, the guardian of the
shrine. This was one time she wished she didn't know the answer, but she tried
to maintain her calm. "The weaver fears me. She doesn't want me to follow the
Mark of Athena. But you will let me pass."
"You must choose an ordeal!" the pater insisted. "Fire or dagger! Survive
one, and then, perhaps!"
Annabeth looked down at the bones of her siblings. The failures of your
predecessors will guide you.
They'd all chosen one or the other: fire or dagger. Maybe they'd thought they

could beat the ordeal. But they had all died. Annabeth needed a third choice.
She stared at the altar statue, which was glowing brighter by the second. She
could feel its heat across the room. Her instinct was to focus on the dagger or the
torch, but instead she concentrated on the statue's base. She wondered why its
legs were stuck in stone. Then it occurred to her: maybe the little statue of
Mithras wasn't stuck in the rock. Maybe he was emerging from the rock.
"Neither torch nor dagger," Annabeth said firmly. "There is a third test,
which I will pass."
"A third test?" the pater demanded.
"Mithras was born from rock," Annabeth said, hoping she was right. "He
emerged fully grown from the stone, holding his dagger and torch."
The screaming and wailing told her she had guessed correctly.
"The big mother knows all!" a ghost cried. "That is our most closely guarded
secret!"
Then maybe you shouldn't put a statue of it on your altar, Annabeth thought.
But she was thankful for stupid male ghosts. If they'd let women warriors into
their cult, they might have learned some common sense.
Annabeth gestured dramatically to the wall she'd come from. "I was born
from stone, just as Mithras was! Therefore, I have already passed your ordeal!"
"Bah!" the pater spat. "You came from a hole in the wall! That's not the
same thing."
Okay. So apparently the pater wasn't a complete moron, but Annabeth
remained confident. She glanced at the ceiling, and another idea came to her-
all the details clicking together.
"I have control over the very stones." She raised her arms. "I will prove my
power is greater than Mithras. With a single strike, I will bring down this
chamber."
The ghosts wailed and trembled and looked at the ceiling, but Annabeth knew
they didn't see what she saw. These ghosts were warriors, not engineers. The
children of Athena had many skills, and not just in combat. Annabeth had
studied architecture for years. She knew this ancient chamber was on the verge
of collapse. She recognized what the stress fractures in the ceiling meant, all

emanating from a single point-the top of the stone arch just above her. The
capstone was about to crumble, and when that happened, assuming she could
time it correctly_
"Impossible!" the pater shouted. "The weaver has paid us much tribute to
destroy any children of Athena who would dare enter our shrine. We have never
let her down. We cannot let you pass."
"Then you fear my power!" Annabeth said. "You admit that I could destroy
your sacred chamber!"
The pater scowled. He straightened his hat uneasily. Annabeth knew she'd
put him in an impossible position. He couldn't back down without looking
cowardly.
"Do your worst, child of Athena," he decided. "No one can bring down the
cavern of Mithras, especially with one strike. Especially not a girl!"
Annabeth hefted her dagger. The ceiling was low. She could reach the
capstone easily, but she'd have to make her one strike count.
The doorway behind her was blocked, but in theory, if the room started to
collapse, those bricks should weaken and crumble. She should be able to bust
her way through before the entire ceiling came down-assuming, of course, that
there was something behind the brick wall, not just solid earth; and assuming
that Annabeth was quick enough and strong enough and lucky enough.
Otherwise, she was about to be a demigod pancake.
"Well, boys," she said. "Looks like you chose the wrong war god."
She struck the capstone. The Celestial bronze blade shattered it like a sugar
cube. For a moment, nothing happened.
"Ha!" the pater gloated. "You see? Athena has no power here!"
The room shook. A fissure ran across the length of the ceiling and the far end
of the cavern collapsed, burying the altar and the pater. More cracks widened.
Bricks fell from the arches. Ghosts screamed and ran, but they couldn't seem to
pass through the walls. Apparently they were bound to this chamber even in
death.
Annabeth turned. She slammed against the blocked entrance with all her
might, and the bricks gave way. As the cavern of Mithras imploded behind her,

she lunged into darkness and found herself falling.

ANNABETH THOUGHT SHE KNEW PAIN. She had fallen off the lava wall at Camp
Half-Blood. She'd been stabbed in the arm with a poison blade on the
Williamsburg Bridge. She had even held the weight of the sky on her shoulders.
But that was nothing compared to landing hard on her ankle.
She immediately knew she'd broken it. Pain like a hot steel wire jabbed its
way up her leg and into her hip. The world narrowed to just her, her ankle, and
the agony.
She almost blacked out. Her head spun. Her breath became short and rapid.
No, she told herself. You can't go into shock.
She tried to breathe more slowly. She lay as still as possible until the pain
subsided from absolute torture to just horrible throbbing.
Part of her wanted to howl at the world for being so unfair. All this way, just
to be stopped by something as common as a broken ankle?
She forced her emotions back down. At camp, she'd been trained to survive
in all sorts of bad situations, including injuries like this.
She looked around her. Her dagger had skittered a few feet away. In its dim
light she could make out the features of the room. She was lying on a cold floor
of sandstone blocks. The ceiling was two stories tall. The doorway through

which she'd fallen was ten feet off the ground, now completely blocked with
debris that had cascaded into the room, making a rockslide. Scattered around her
were old pieces of lumber-some cracked and desiccated, others broken into
kindling.
Stupid, she scolded herself. She'd lunged through that doorway, assuming
there would be a level corridor or another room. It had never occurred to her that
she'd be tumbling into space. The lumber had probably once been a staircase,
long ago collapsed.
She inspected her ankle. Her foot didn't appear too strangely bent. She could
feel her toes. She didn't see any blood. That was all good.
She reached out for a piece of lumber. Even that small bit of movement made
her yelp.
The board crumbled in her hand. The wood might be centuries old, or even
millennia. She had no way of knowing if this room was older than the shrine of
Mithras, or if-like the labyrinth-the rooms were a hodgepodge from many
eras thrown randomly together.
"Okay," she said aloud, just to hear her voice. "Think, Annabeth. Prioritize."
She remembered a silly wilderness survival course Grover had taught her
back at camp. At least it had seemed silly at the time. First step: Scan your
surroundings for immediate threats.
This room didn't seem to be in danger of collapsing. The rockslide had
stopped. The walls were solid blocks of stone with no major cracks that she
could see. The ceiling was not sagging. Good.
The only exit was on the far wall-an arched doorway that led into darkness.
Between her and the doorway, a small brickwork trench cut across the floor,
letting water flow through the room from left to right. Maybe plumbing from the
Roman days? If the water was drinkable, that was good too.
Piled in one corner were some broken ceramic vases, spilling out shriveled
brown clumps that might once have been fruit. Yuck. In another corner were
some wooden crates that looked more intact, and some wicker boxes bound with
leather straps.
"So, no immediate danger," she said to herself. "Unless something comes

barreling out of that dark tunnel."
She glared at the doorway, almost daring her luck to get worse. Nothing
happened.
"Okay," she said. "Next step: Take inventory."
What could she use? She had her water bottle, and more water in that trench
if she could reach it. She had her knife. Her backpack was full of colorful string
(whee), her laptop, the bronze map, some matches, and some ambrosia for
emergencies.
Ah_yeah. This qualified as an emergency. She dug the godly food out of her
pack and wolfed it down. As usual, it tasted like comforting memories. This time
it was buttered popcorn-movie night with her dad at his place in San Francisco,
no stepmom, no stepbrothers, just Annabeth and her father curled up on the sofa
watching sappy old romantic comedies.
The ambrosia warmed her whole body. The pain in her leg became a dull
throb. Annabeth knew she was still in major trouble. Even ambrosia couldn't
heal broken bones right away. It might speed up the process, but best-case
scenario, she wouldn't be able to put any weight on her foot for a day or more.
She tried to reach her knife, but it was too far away. She scooted in that
direction. Pain flared again, like nails were piercing her foot. Her face beaded
with sweat, but after one more scoot, she managed to reach the dagger.
She felt better holding it-not just for light and protection, but also because it
was so familiar.
What next? Grover's survival class had mentioned something about staying
put and waiting for rescue, but that wasn't going to happen. Even if Percy
somehow managed to trace her steps, the cavern of Mithras had collapsed.
She could try contacting someone with Daedalus's laptop, but she doubted
she could get a signal down here. Besides, who would she call? She couldn't text
anyone who was close enough to help. Demigods never carried cell phones,
because their signals attracted too much monstrous attention, and none of her
friends would be sitting around checking their e-mail.
An Iris-message? She had water, but she doubted that she could make enough
light for a rainbow. The only coin she had was her silver Athenian drachma,

which didn't make a great tribute.
There was another problem with calling for help: this was supposed to be a
solo quest. If Annabeth did get rescued, she'd be admitting defeat. Something
told her that the Mark of Athena would no longer guide her. She could wander
down here forever, and she'd never find the Athena Parthenos.
So_no good staying put and waiting for help. Which meant she had to find a
way to keep going on her own.
She opened her water bottle and drank. She hadn't realized how thirsty she
was. When the bottle was empty, she crawled to the gutter and refilled it.
The water was cold and moving swiftly-good signs that it might be safe to
drink. She filled her bottle, then cupped some water in her hands and splashed
her face. Immediately she felt more alert. She washed off and cleaned her
scrapes as best she could.
Annabeth sat up and glared at her ankle.
"You had to break," she scolded it.
The ankle did not reply.
She'd have to immobilize it in some sort of cast. That was the only way she'd
be able to move.
Hmm_
She raised her dagger and inspected the room again in its bronze light. Now
that she was closer to the open doorway, she liked it even less. It led into a dark
silent corridor. The air wafting out smelled sickly sweet and somehow evil.
Unfortunately, Annabeth didn't see any other way she could go.
With a lot of gasping and blinking back tears, she crawled over to the
wreckage of the stairs. She found two planks that were in fairly good shape and
long enough for a splint. Then she scooted over to the wicker boxes and used her
knife to cut off the leather straps.
While she was psyching herself up to immobilize her ankle, she noticed some
faded words on one of the wooden crates: HERMES EXPRESS.
Annabeth scooted excitedly toward the box.
She had no idea what it was doing here, but Hermes delivered all sorts of
useful stuff to gods, spirits, and even demigods. Maybe he'd dropped this care

package here years ago to help demigods like her with this quest.
She pried it open and pulled out several sheets of Bubble Wrap, but whatever
had been inside was gone.
"Hermes!" she protested.
She stared glumly at the Bubble Wrap. Then her mind kicked into gear, and
she realized the wrapping was a gift. "Oh_that's perfect!"
Annabeth covered her broken ankle in a Bubble Wrap cast. She set it with the
lumber splints and tied it all together with the leather straps.
Once before, in first aid practice, she'd splinted a fake broken leg for another
camper, but she never imagined she'd have to make a splint for herself.
It was hard, painful work, but finally it was done. She searched the wreckage
of the stairs until she found part of the railing-a narrow board about four feet
long that could serve as a crutch. She put her back against the wall, got her good
leg ready, and hauled herself up.
"Whoa." Black spots danced in her eyes, but she stayed upright.
"Next time," she muttered to the dark room, "just let me fight a monster.
Much easier."
Above the open doorway, the Mark of Athena blazed to life against the arch.
The fiery owl seemed to be watching her expectantly, as if to say: About time.
Oh, you want monsters? Right this way!
Annabeth wondered if that burning mark was based on a real sacred owl. If
so, when she survived, she was going to find that owl and punch it in the face.
That thought lifted her spirits. She made it across the trench and hobbled
slowly into the corridor.

THE TUNNEL RAN STRAIGHT AND SMOOTH, but after her fall, Annabeth decided to
take no chances. She used the wall for support and tapped the floor in front of
her with her crutch to make sure there were no traps.
As she walked, the sickly sweet smell got stronger and set her nerves on
edge. The sound of running water faded behind her. In its place came a dry
chorus of whispers like a million tiny voices. They seemed to be coming from
inside the walls, and they were getting louder.
Annabeth tried to speed up, but she couldn't go much faster without losing
her balance or jarring her broken ankle. She hobbled onward, convinced that
something was following her. The small voices were massing together, getting
closer.
She touched the wall, and her hand came back covered in cobwebs.
She yelped, then cursed herself for making a sound.
It's only a web, she told herself. But that didn't stop the roaring in her ears.
She'd expected spiders. She knew what was ahead: The weaver. Her
Ladyship. The voice in the dark. But the webs made her realize how close she
was.
Her hand trembled as she wiped it on the stones. What had she been thinking?

She couldn't do this quest alone.
Too late, she told herself. Just keep going.
She made her way down the corridor one painful step at a time. The
whispering sounds got louder behind her until they sounded like millions of
dried leaves swirling in the wind. The cobwebs became thicker, filling the
tunnel. Soon she was pushing them out of her face, ripping through gauzy
curtains that covered her like Silly String.
Her heart wanted to break out of her chest and run. She stumbled ahead more
recklessly, trying to ignore the pain in her ankle.
Finally the corridor ended in a doorway filled waist-high with old lumber. It
looked as if someone had tried to barricade the opening. That didn't bode well,
but Annabeth used her crutch to push away the boards as best she could. She
crawled over the remaining pile, getting a few dozen splinters in her free hand.
On the other side of the barricade was a chamber the size of a basketball
court. The floor was done in Roman mosaics. The remains of tapestries hung
from the walls. Two unlit torches sat in wall sconces on either side of the
doorway, both covered in cobwebs.
At the far end of the room, the Mark of Athena burned over another doorway.
Unfortunately, between Annabeth and that exit, the floor was bisected by a
chasm fifty feet across. Spanning the pit were two parallel wooden beams, too
far apart for both feet, but each too narrow to walk on unless Annabeth was an
acrobat, which she wasn't, and didn't have a broken ankle, which she did.
The corridor she'd come from was filled with hissing noises. Cobwebs
trembled and danced as the first of the spiders appeared: no larger than
gumdrops, but plump and black, skittering over the walls and the floor.
What kind of spiders? Annabeth had no idea. She only knew they were
coming for her, and she only had seconds to figure out a plan.
Annabeth wanted to sob. She wanted someone, anyone, to be here for her.
She wanted Leo with his fire skills, or Jason with his lightning, or Hazel to
collapse the tunnel. Most of all she wanted Percy. She always felt braver when
Percy was with her.
I am not going to die here, she told herself. I'm going to see Percy again.

The first spiders were almost to the door. Behind them came the bulk of the
army-a black sea of creepy-crawlies.
Annabeth hobbled to one of the wall sconces and snatched up the torch. The
end was coated in pitch for easy lighting. Her fingers felt like lead, but she
rummaged through her backpack and found the matches. She struck one and set
the torch ablaze.
She thrust it into the barricade. The old dry wood caught immediately.
Flames leaped to the cobwebs and roared down the corridor in a flash fire,
roasting spiders by the thousands.
Annabeth stepped back from her bonfire. She'd bought herself some time, but
she doubted that she'd killed all the spiders. They would regroup and swarm
again as soon as the fire died.
She stepped to the edge of the chasm.
She shined her light into the pit, but she couldn't see the bottom. Jumping in
would be suicide. She could try to cross one of the bars hand over hand, but she
didn't trust her arm strength, and she didn't see how she would be able to haul
herself up with a full backpack and a broken ankle once she reached the other
side.
She crouched and studied the beams. Each had a set of iron eye hooks along
the inside, set at one-foot intervals. Maybe the rails had been the sides of a
bridge and the middle planks had been removed or destroyed. But eye hooks?
Those weren't for supporting planks. More like_
She glanced at the walls. The same kind of hooks had been used to hang the
shredded tapestries.
She realized the beams weren't meant as a bridge. They were some kind of
loom.
Annabeth threw her flaming torch to the other side of the chasm. She had no
faith her plan would work, but she pulled all the string out of her backpack and
began weaving between the beams, stringing a cat's cradle pattern back and
forth from eye hook to eye hook, doubling and tripling the line.
Her hands moved with blazing speed. She stopped thinking about the task and
just did it, looping and tying off lines, slowly extending her woven net over the

pit.
She forgot the pain in her leg and the fiery barricade guttering out behind her.
She inched over the chasm. The weaving held her weight. Before she knew it,
she was halfway across.
How had she learned to do this?
It's Athena, she told herself. My mother's skill with useful crafts. Weaving
had never seemed particularly useful to Annabeth-until now.
She glanced behind her. The barricade fire was dying. A few spiders crawled
in around the edges of the doorway.
Desperately she continued weaving, and finally she made it across. She
snatched up the torch and thrust it into her woven bridge. Flames raced along the
string. Even the beams caught fire as if they'd been pre-soaked in oil.
For a moment, the bridge burned in a clear pattern-a fiery row of identical
owls. Had Annabeth really woven them into the string, or was it some kind of
magic? She didn't know, but as the spiders began to cross, the beams crumbled
and collapsed into the pit.
Annabeth held her breath. She didn't see any reason why the spiders couldn't
reach her by climbing the walls or the ceiling. If they started to do that, she'd
have to run for it, and she was pretty sure she couldn't move fast enough.
For some reason, the spiders didn't follow. They massed at the edge of the pit
-a seething black carpet of creepiness. Then they dispersed, flooding back into
the burned corridor, almost as if Annabeth was no longer interesting.
"Or I passed a test," she said aloud.
Her torch sputtered out, leaving her with only the light of her dagger. She
realized that she'd left her makeshift crutch on the other side of the chasm.
She felt exhausted and out of tricks, but her mind was clear. Her panic
seemed to have burned up along with that woven bridge.
The weaver, she thought. I must be close. At least I know what's ahead.
She made her way down the next corridor, hopping to keep the weight off her
bad foot.
She didn't have far to go.
After twenty feet, the tunnel opened into a cavern as large as a cathedral, so

majestic that Annabeth had trouble processing everything she saw. She guessed
that this was the room from Percy's dream, but it wasn't dark. Bronze braziers of
magical light, like the gods used on Mount Olympus, glowed around the
circumference of the room, interspersed with gorgeous tapestries. The stone
floor was webbed with fissures like a sheet of ice. The ceiling was so high, it
was lost in the gloom and layers upon layers of spiderwebs.
Strands of silk as thick as pillars ran from the ceiling all over the room,
anchoring the walls and the floor like the cables of a suspension bridge.
Webs also surrounded the centerpiece of the shrine, which was so
intimidating that Annabeth had trouble raising her eyes to look at it. Looming
over her was a forty-foot-tall statue of Athena, with luminous ivory skin and a
dress of gold. In her outstretched hand, Athena held a statue of Nike, the winged
victory goddess-a statue that looked tiny from here, but was probably as tall as
a real person. Athena's other hand rested on a shield as big as a billboard, with a
sculpted snake peeking out from behind, as if Athena was protecting it.
The goddess's face was serene and kindly_and it looked like Athena.
Annabeth had seen many statues that didn't resemble her mom at all, but this
giant version, made thousands of years ago, made her think that the artist must
have met Athena in person. He had captured her perfectly.
"Athena Parthenos," Annabeth murmured. "It's really here."
All her life, she had wanted to visit the Parthenon. Now she was seeing the
main attraction that used to be there-and she was the first child of Athena to do
so in millennia.
She realized her mouth was hanging open. She forced herself to swallow.
Annabeth could have stood there all day looking at the statue, but she had only
accomplished half her mission. She had found the Athena Parthenos. Now, how
could she rescue it from this cavern?
Strands of web covered it like a gauze pavilion. Annabeth suspected that
without those webs, the statue would have fallen through the weakened floor
long ago. As she stepped into the room, she could see that the cracks below were
so wide, she could have lost her foot in them. Beneath the cracks, she saw
nothing but empty darkness.

A chill washed over her. Where was the guardian? How could Annabeth free
the statue without collapsing the floor? She couldn't very well shove the Athena
Parthenos down the corridor that she'd come from.
She scanned the chamber, hoping to see something that might help. Her eyes
wandered over the tapestries, which were heart-wrenchingly beautiful. One
showed a pastoral scene so three-dimensional, it could've been a window.
Another tapestry showed the gods battling the giants. Annabeth saw a landscape
of the Underworld. Next to it was the skyline of modern Rome. And in the
tapestry to her left_
She caught her breath. It was a portrait of two demigods kissing underwater:
Annabeth and Percy, the day their friends had thrown them into the canoe lake at
camp. It was so lifelike that she wondered if the weaver had been there, lurking
in the lake with a waterproof camera.
"How is that possible?" she murmured.
Above her in the gloom, a voice spoke. "For ages I have known that you
would come, my sweet."
Annabeth shuddered. Suddenly she was seven years old again, hiding under
her covers, waiting for the spiders to attack her in the night. The voice sounded
just as Percy had described: an angry buzz in multiple tones, female but not
human.
In the webs above the statue, something moved-something dark and large.
"I have seen you in my dreams," the voice said, sickly sweet and evil, like the
smell in the corridors. "I had to make sure you were worthy, the only child of
Athena clever enough to pass my tests and reach this place alive. Indeed, you are
her most talented child. This will make your death so much more painful to my
old enemy when you fail utterly."
The pain in Annabeth's ankle was nothing compared to the icy acid now
filling her veins. She wanted to run. She wanted to plead for mercy. But she
couldn't show weakness-not now.
"You're Arachne," she called out. "The weaver who was turned into a
spider."
The figure descended, becoming clearer and more horrible. "Cursed by your

mother," she said. "Scorned by all and made into a hideous thing_because I
was the better weaver."
"But you lost the contest," Annabeth said.
"That's the story written by the winner!" cried Arachne. "Look on my work!
See for yourself!"
Annabeth didn't have to. The tapestries were the best she'd ever seen-better
than the witch Circe's work, and, yes, even better than some weavings she'd
seen on Mount Olympus. She wondered if her mother truly had lost-if she'd
hidden Arachne away and rewritten the truth. But right now, it didn't matter.
"You've been guarding this statue since the ancient times," Annabeth
guessed. "But it doesn't belong here. I'm taking it back."
"Ha," Arachne said.
Even Annabeth had to admit her threat sounded ridiculous. How could one
girl in a Bubble Wrap ankle cast remove this huge statue from its underground
chamber?
"I'm afraid you would have to defeat me first, my sweet," Arachne said.
"And alas, that is impossible."
The creature appeared from the curtains of webbing, and Annabeth realized
that her quest was hopeless. She was about to die.
Arachne had the body of a giant black widow, with a hairy red hourglass
mark on the underside of her abdomen and a pair of oozing spinnerets. Her eight
spindly legs were lined with curved barbs as big as Annabeth's dagger. If the
spider came any closer, her sweet stench alone would have been enough to make
Annabeth faint. But the most horrible part was her misshapen face.
She might once have been a beautiful woman. Now black mandibles
protruded from her mouth like tusks. Her other teeth had grown into thin white
needles. Fine dark whiskers dotted her cheeks. Her eyes were large, lidless, and
pure black, with two smaller eyes sticking out of her temples.
The creature made a violent rip-rip-rip sound that might have been laughter.
"Now I will feast on you, my sweet," Arachne said. "But do not fear. I will
make a beautiful tapestry depicting your death."

LEO WISHED HE WASN'T SO GOOD.
Really, sometimes it was just embarrassing. If he hadn't had such an eye for
mechanical stuff, they might never have found the secret chute, gotten lost in the
underground, and been attacked by metal dudes. But he just couldn't help
himself.
Part of it was Hazel's fault. For a girl with super underground senses, she
wasn't much good in Rome. She kept leading them around and around the city,
getting dizzy, and doubling back.
"Sorry," she said. "It's just_there's so much underground here, so many
layers, it's overwhelming. Like standing in the middle of an orchestra and trying
to concentrate on a single instrument. I'm going deaf."
As a result, they got a tour of Rome. Frank seemed happy to plod along like a
big sheepdog (hmm, Leo wondered if he could turn into one of those, or even
better: a horse that Leo could ride). But Leo started to get impatient. His feet
were sore, the day was sunny and hot, and the streets were choked with tourists.
The Forum was okay, but it was mostly ruins overgrown with bushes and
trees. It took a lot of imagination to see it as the bustling center of Ancient
Rome. Leo could only manage it because he'd seen New Rome in California.

They passed big churches, freestanding arches, clothing stores, and fast-food
restaurants. One statue of some Ancient Roman dude seemed to be pointing to a
nearby McDonald's.
On the wider streets, the car traffic was absolutely nuts-man, Leo thought
people in Houston drove crazy-but they spent most of their time weaving
through small alleys, coming across fountains and little cafes where Leo was not
allowed to rest.
"I never thought I'd get to see Rome," Hazel said. "When I was alive, I mean
the first time, Mussolini was in charge. We were at war."
"Mussolini?" Leo frowned. "Wasn't he like BFFs with Hitler?"
Hazel stared at him like he was an alien. "BFFs?"
"Never mind."
"I'd love to see the Trevi Fountain," she said.
"There's a fountain on every block," Leo grumbled.
"Or the Spanish Steps," Hazel said.
"Why would you come to Italy to see Spanish steps?" Leo asked. "That's like
going to China for Mexican food, isn't it?"
"You're hopeless," Hazel complained.
"So I've been told."
She turned to Frank and grabbed his hand, as if Leo had ceased to exist.
"Come on. I think we should go this way."
Frank gave Leo a confused smile-like he couldn't decide whether to gloat or
to thank Leo for being a doofus-but he cheerfully let Hazel drag him along.
After walking forever, Hazel stopped in front of a church. At least, Leo
assumed it was a church. The main section had a big domed roof. The entrance
had a triangular roof, typical Roman columns, and an inscription across the top:
M. AGRIPPA something or other.
"Latin for Get a grip?" Leo speculated.
"This is our best bet." Hazel sounded more certain than she had all day.
"There should be a secret passage somewhere inside."
Tour groups milled around the steps. Guides held up colored placards with
different numbers and lectured in dozens of languages like they were playing

some kind of international bingo.
Leo listened to the Spanish tour guide for a few seconds, and then he reported
to his friends, "This is the Pantheon. It was originally built by Marcus Agrippa
as a temple to the gods. After it burned down, Emperor Hadrian rebuilt it, and
it's been standing for two thousand years. It's one of the best-preserved Roman
buildings in the world."
Frank and Hazel stared at him.
"How did you know that?" Hazel asked.
"I'm naturally brilliant."
"Centaur poop," Frank said. "He eavesdropped on a tour group."
Leo grinned. "Maybe. Come on. Let's go find that secret passage. I hope this
place has air conditioning."
Of course, no AC.
On the bright side, there were no lines and no admission fee, so they just
muscled their way past the tour groups and walked on in.
The interior was pretty impressive, considering it had been constructed two
thousand years ago. The marble floor was patterned with squares and circles like
a Roman tic-tac-toe game. The main space was one huge chamber with a circular
rotunda, sort of like a capitol building back in the States. Lining the walls were
different shrines and statues and tombs and stuff. But the real eye-catcher was
the dome overhead. All the light in the building came from one circular opening
right at the top. A beam of sunlight slanted into the rotunda and glowed on the
floor, like Zeus was up there with a magnifying glass, trying to fry puny humans.
Leo was no architect like Annabeth, but he could appreciate the engineering.
The Romans had made the dome out of big stone panels, but they'd hollowed
out each panel in a square-within-square pattern. It looked cool. Leo figured it
also made the dome lighter and easier to support.
He didn't mention that to his friends. He doubted they would care, but if
Annabeth were here, she would've spent the whole day talking about it.
Thinking about that made Leo wonder how she was doing on her Mark of
Athena expedition. Leo never thought he'd feel this way, but he was worried

about that scary blond girl.
Hazel stopped in the middle of the room and turned in a circle. "This is
amazing. In the old days, the children of Vulcan would come here in secret to
consecrate demigod weapons. This is where Imperial gold was enchanted."
Leo wondered how that worked. He imagined a bunch of demigods in dark
robes trying to quietly roll a scorpion ballista through the front doors.
"But we're not here because of that," he guessed.
"No," Hazel said. "There's an entrance-a tunnel that will lead us toward
Nico. I can sense it close by. I'm not sure where."
Frank grunted. "If this building is two thousand years old, it makes sense
there could be some kind of secret passage left over from the Roman days."
That's when Leo made his mistake of simply being too good.
He scanned the temple's interior, thinking: If I were designing a secret
passage, where would I put it?
He could sometimes figure out how a machine worked by putting his hand on
it. He'd learned to fly a helicopter that way. He'd fixed Festus the dragon that
way (before Festus crashed and burned). Once he'd even reprogrammed the
electronic billboards in Times Square to read: ALL DA LADIES LUV LEO_
accidentally, of course.
Now he tried to sense the workings of this ancient building. He turned toward
a red marble altar-looking thing with a statue of the Virgin Mary on the top.
"Over there," he said.
He marched confidently to the shrine. It was shaped sort of like a fireplace,
with an arched recess at the bottom. The mantel was inscribed with a name, like
a tomb.
"The passage is around here," he said. "This guy's final resting place is in the
way. Raphael somebody?"
"Famous painter, I think," Hazel said.
Leo shrugged. He had a cousin named Raphael, and he didn't think much of
the name. He wondered if he could produce a stick of dynamite from his tool
belt and do a little discreet demolition; but he figured the caretakers of this place
probably wouldn't approve.

"Hold on_" Leo looked around to make sure they weren't being watched.
Most of the tour groups were gawking at the dome, but one trio made Leo
uneasy. About fifty feet away, some overweight middle-aged dudes with
American accents were conversing loudly, complaining to each other about the
heat. They looked like manatees stuffed into beach clothes-sandals, walking
shorts, touristy T-shirts and floppy hats. Their legs were big and pasty and
covered with spider veins. The guys acted extremely bored, and Leo wondered
why they were hanging around.
They weren't watching him. Leo wasn't sure why they made him nervous.
Maybe he just didn't like manatees.
Forget them, Leo told himself.
He slipped around the side of the tomb. He ran his hand down the back of a
Roman column, all the way to the base. Right at the bottom, a series of lines had
been etched into the marble-Roman numerals.
"Heh," Leo said. "Not very elegant, but effective."
"What is?" Frank asked.
"The combination for a lock." He felt around the back of the column some
more and discovered a square hole about the size of an electrical socket. "The
lock face itself has been ripped out-probably vandalized sometime in the last
few centuries. But I should be able to control the mechanism inside, if I can_"
Leo placed his hand on the marble floor. He could sense old bronze gears
under the surface of the stone. Regular bronze would have corroded and become
unusable long ago, but these were Celestial bronze-the handiwork of a
demigod. With a little willpower, Leo urged them to move, using the Roman
numerals to guide him. The cylinders turned-click, click, click. Then click,
click.
On the floor next to the wall, one section of marble tile slid under another,
revealing a dark square opening barely large enough to wiggle through.
"Romans must've been small." Leo looked at Frank appraisingly. "You'll
need to change into something thinner to get through here."
"That's not nice!" Hazel chided.
"What? Just saying-"

"Don't worry about it," Frank mumbled. "We should go get the others before
we explore. That's what Piper said."
"They're halfway across the city," Leo reminded him. "Besides, uh, I'm not
sure I can close this hatch again. The gears are pretty old."
"Great," Frank said. "How do we know it's safe down there?"
Hazel knelt. She put her hand over the opening as if checking the
temperature. "There's nothing alive_at least not for several hundred feet. The
tunnel slants down, then levels out and goes south, more or less. I don't sense
any traps_"
"How can you tell all that?" Leo asked.
She shrugged. "Same way you can pick locks on marble columns, I guess.
I'm glad you're not into robbing banks."
"Oh_bank vaults," Leo said. "Never thought about that."
"Forget I said anything." Hazel sighed. "Look, it's not three o'clock yet. We
can at least do a little exploring, try to pinpoint Nico's location before we
contact the others. You two stay here until I call for you. I want to check things
out, make sure the tunnel is structurally sound. I'll be able to tell more once I'm
underground."
Frank scowled. "We can't let you go by yourself. You could get hurt."
"Frank, I can take care of myself," she said. "Underground is my specialty.
It's safest for all of us if I go first."
"Unless Frank wants to turn into a mole," Leo suggested. "Or a prairie dog.
Those things are awesome."
"Shut up," Frank mumbled.
"Or a badger."
Frank jabbed a finger at Leo's face. "Valdez, I swear-"
"Both of you, be quiet," Hazel scolded. "I'll be back soon. Give me ten
minutes. If you don't hear from me by then_Never mind. I'll be fine. Just try
not to kill each other while I'm down there."
She dropped down the hole. Leo and Frank blocked her from view as best
they could. They stood shoulder to shoulder, trying to look casual, like it was
completely natural for two teenaged guys to hang around Raphael's tomb.

Tour groups came and went. Most ignored Leo and Frank. A few people
glanced at them apprehensively and kept walking. Maybe the tourists thought
they would ask for tips. For some reason, Leo could unnerve people when he
grinned.
The three American manatees were still hanging out in the middle of the
room. One of them wore a T-shirt that said ROMA, as if he'd forget what city he
was in if he didn't wear it. Every once in a while, he would glance over at Leo
and Frank like he found their presence distasteful.
Something about that dude bothered Leo. He wished Hazel would hurry up.
"She talked to me earlier," Frank said abruptly. "Hazel told me you figured
out about my lifeline."
Leo stirred. He'd almost forgotten Frank was standing next to him.
"Your lifeline_oh, the burning stick. Right." Leo resisted the urge to set his
hand ablaze and yell: Bwah ha ha! The idea was sort of funny, but he wasn't that
cruel.
"Look, man," he said. "It's cool. I'd never do anything to put you in danger.
We're on the same team."
Frank fiddled with his centurion badge. "I always knew fire could kill me, but
since my grandmother's mansion burned down in Vancouver_it seems a lot
more real."
Leo nodded. He felt sympathy for Frank, but the guy didn't make it easy
when he talked about his family mansion. Sort of like saying, I crashed my
Lamborghini, and waiting for people to say, Oh, you poor baby!
Of course Leo didn't tell him that. "Your grandmother-did she die in that
fire? You didn't say."
"I-I don't know. She was sick, and pretty old. She said she would die in her
own time, in her own way. But I think she made it out of the fire. I saw this bird
flying up from the flames."
Leo thought about that. "So your whole family has the shape-changing
thing?"
"I guess," Frank said. "My mom did. Grandmother thought that's what got
her killed in Afghanistan, in the war. Mom tried to help some of her buddies,

and_I don't know exactly what happened. There was a firebomb."
Leo winced with sympathy. "So we both lost our moms to fire."
He hadn't been planning on it, but he told Frank the whole story of the night
at the workshop when Gaea had appeared to him, and his mother had died.
Frank's eyes got watery. "I never like it when people tell me, Sorry about
your mom."
"It never feels genuine," Leo agreed.
"But I'm sorry about your mom."
"Thanks."
No sign of Hazel. The American tourists were still milling around the
Pantheon. They seemed to be circling closer, like they were trying to sneak up
on Raphael's tomb without it noticing.
"Back at Camp Jupiter," Frank said, "our cabin Lar, Reticulus, told me I have
more power than most demigods, being a son of Mars, plus having the shapechanging ability from my mom's side. He said that's why my life is tied to a
burning stick. It's such a huge weakness that it kind of balances things out."
Leo remembered his conversation with Nemesis the revenge goddess at the
Great Salt Lake. She'd said something similar about wanting the scales to
balance. Good luck is a sham. True success requires sacrifice.
Her fortune cookie was still in Leo's tool belt, waiting to be opened. Soon
you will face a problem you cannot solve, though I could help you_for a price.
Leo wished he could pluck that memory out of his head and shove it in his
tool belt. It was taking up too much space. "We've all got weaknesses," he said.
"Me, for instance. I'm tragically funny and good-looking."
Frank snorted. "You might have weaknesses. But your life doesn't depend on
a piece of firewood."
"No," Leo admitted. He started thinking: if Frank's problem were his
problem, how would he solve it? Almost every design flaw could be fixed. "I
wonder_"
He looked across the room and faltered. The three American tourists were
coming their way; no more circling or sneaking. They were making a straight
line for Raphael's tomb, and all three were glaring at Leo.

"Uh, Frank?" Leo asked. "Has it been ten minutes yet?"
Frank followed his gaze. The Americans' faces were angry and confused, like
they were sleepwalking through a very annoying nightmare.
"Leo Valdez," called the guy in the ROMA shirt. His voice had changed. It was
hollow and metallic. He spoke English as if it was a second language. "We meet
again."
All three tourists blinked, and their eyes turned solid gold.
Frank yelped. "Eidolons!"
The manatees clenched their beefy fists. Normally, Leo wouldn't have
worried about getting murdered by overweight guys in floppy hats, but he
suspected the eidolons were dangerous even in those bodies, especially since the
spirits wouldn't care whether their hosts survived or not.
"They can't fit down the hole," Leo said.
"Right," Frank said. "Underground is sounding really good."
He turned into a snake and slithered over the edge. Leo jumped in after him
while the spirits began to wail above, "Valdez! Kill Valdez!"

ONE PROBLEM SOLVED: the hatch above them closed automatically, cutting off
their pursuers. It also cut off all light, but Leo and Frank could deal with that.
Leo just hoped they didn't need to get out the same way they came in. He wasn't
sure he could open the tile from underneath.
At least the possessed manatee dudes were on the other side. Over Leo's
head, the marble floor shuddered, like fat touristy feet were kicking it.
Frank must have turned back to human form. Leo could hear him wheezing in
the dark.
"What now?" Frank asked.
"Okay, don't freak," Leo said. "I'm going to summon a little fire, just so we
can see."
"Thanks for the warning."
Leo's index finger blazed like a birthday candle. In front of them stretched a
stone tunnel with a low ceiling. Just as Hazel had predicted, it slanted down,
then leveled out and went south.
"Well," Leo said. "It only goes in one direction."
"Let's find Hazel," Frank said.
Leo had no argument with that suggestion. They made their way down the

corridor, Leo going first with the fire. He was glad to have Frank at his back, big
and strong and able to turn into scary animals in case those possessed tourists
somehow broke through the hatch, squeezed inside, and followed them. He
wondered if the eidolons might just leave those bodies behind, seep
underground, and possess one of them instead.
Oh, there's my happy thought for the day! Leo scolded himself.
After a hundred feet or so, they turned a corner and found Hazel. In the light
of her golden cavalry sword, she was examining a door. She was so engrossed,
she didn't notice them until Leo said, "Hi."
Hazel whirled, trying to swing her spatha. Fortunately for Leo's face, the
blade was too long to wield in the corridor.
"What are you doing here?" Hazel demanded.
Leo gulped. "Sorry. We ran into some angry tourists." He told her what had
happened.
She hissed in frustration. "I hate eidolons. I thought Piper made them promise
to stay away."
"Oh_" Frank said, like he'd just had his own daily happy thought. "Piper
made them promise to stay off the ship and not possess any of us. But if they
followed us, and used other bodies to attack us, then they're not technically
breaking their vow._"
"Great," Leo muttered. "Eidolons who are also lawyers. Now I really want to
kill them."
"Okay, forget them for now," Hazel said. "This door is giving me fits. Leo,
can you try your skill with the lock?"
Leo cracked his knuckles. "Stand aside for the master, please."
The door was interesting, much more complicated than the Roman numeral
combination lock above. The entire door was coated in Imperial gold. A
mechanical sphere about the size of a bowling ball was embedded in the center.
The sphere was constructed from five concentric rings, each inscribed with
zodiac symbols-the bull, the scorpion, et cetera-and seemingly random
numbers and letters.
"These letters are Greek," Leo said in surprise.

"Well, lots of Romans spoke Greek," Hazel said.
"I guess," Leo said. "But this workmanship_no offense to you Camp Jupiter
types, but this is too complicated to be Roman."
Frank snorted. "Whereas you Greeks just love making things complicated."
"Hey," Leo protested. "All I'm saying is this machinery is delicate,
sophisticated. It reminds me of_" Leo stared at the sphere, trying to recall
where he'd read or heard about a similar ancient machine. "It's a more advanced
sort of lock," he decided. "You line up the symbols on the different rings in the
right order, and that opens the door."
"But what's the right order?" Hazel asked.
"Good question. Greek spheres_astronomy, geometry_" Leo got a warm
feeling inside. "Oh, no way. I wonder_What's the value of pi?"
Frank frowned. "What kind of pie?"
"He means the number," Hazel guessed. "I learned that in math class once,
but-"
"It's used to measure circles," Leo said. "This sphere, if it's made by the guy
I'm thinking of_"
Hazel and Frank both stared at him blankly.
"Never mind," Leo said. "I'm pretty sure pi is, uh, 3.1415 blah blah blah. The
number goes on forever, but the sphere has only five rings, so that should be
enough, if I'm right."
"And if you're not?" Frank asked.
"Well, then, Leo fall down, go boom. Let's find out!"
He turned the rings, starting on the outside and moving in. He ignored the
zodiac signs and letters, lining up the correct numbers so they made the value of
pi. Nothing happened.
"I'm stupid," Leo mumbled. "Pi would expand outward, because it's
infinite."
He reversed the order of the numbers, starting in the center and working
toward the edge. When he aligned the last ring, something inside the sphere
clicked. The door swung open.
Leo beamed at his friends. "That, good people, is how we do things in Leo

World. Come on in!"
"I hate Leo World," Frank muttered.
Hazel laughed.
Inside was enough cool stuff to keep Leo busy for years. The room was about
the size of the forge back at Camp Half-Blood, with bronze-topped worktables
along the walls, and baskets full of ancient metalworking tools. Dozens of
bronze and gold spheres like steampunk basketballs sat around in various stages
of disassembly. Loose gears and wiring littered the floor. Thick metal cables ran
from each table toward the back of the room, where there was an enclosed loft
like a theater's sound booth. Stairs led up to the booth on either side. All the
cables seemed to run into it. Next to the stairs on the left, a row of cubbyholes
was filled with leather cylinders-probably ancient scroll cases.
Leo was about to head toward the tables when he glanced to his left and
nearly jumped out of his shoes. Flanking the doorway were two armored
manikins-like skeletal scarecrows made from bronze pipes, outfitted with full
suits of Roman armor, shield and sword.
"Dude." Leo walked up to one. "These would be awesome if they worked."
Frank edged away from the manikins. "Those things are going to come alive
and attack us, aren't they?"
Leo laughed. "Not a chance. They aren't complete." He tapped the nearest
manikin's neck, where loose copper wires sprouted from underneath its
breastplate. "Look, the head's wiring has been disconnected. And here, at the
elbow, the pulley system for this joint is out of alignment. My guess? The
Romans were trying to duplicate a Greek design, but they didn't have the skill."
Hazel arched her eyebrows. "The Romans weren't good enough at being
complicated, I suppose."
"Or delicate," Frank added. "Or sophisticated."
"Hey, I just call it like I see it." Leo jiggled the manikin's head, making it nod
like it was agreeing with him. "Still_a pretty impressive try. I've heard legends
that the Romans confiscated the writings of Archimedes, but-"
"Archimedes?" Hazel looked baffled. "Wasn't he an ancient mathematician
or something?"

Leo laughed. "He was a lot more than that. He was only the most famous son
of Hephaestus who ever lived."
Frank scratched his ear. "I've heard his name before, but how can you be sure
this manikin is his design?"
"It has to be!" Leo said. "Look, I've read all about Archimedes. He's a hero
to Cabin Nine. The dude was Greek, right? He lived in one of the Greek colonies
in southern Italy, back before Rome got all huge and took over. Finally the
Romans moved in and destroyed his city. The Roman general wanted to spare
Archimedes, because he was so valuable-sort of like the Einstein of the ancient
world-but some stupid Roman soldier killed him."
"There you go again," Hazel muttered. "Stupid and Roman don't always go
together, Leo."
Frank grunted agreement. "How do you know all this, anyway?" he
demanded. "Is there a Spanish tour guide around here?"
"No, man," Leo said. "You can't be a demigod who's into building stuff and
not know about Archimedes. The guy was seriously elite. He calculated the
value of pi. He did all this math stuff we still use for engineering. He invented a
hydraulic screw that could move water through pipes."
Hazel scowled. "A hydraulic screw. Excuse me for not knowing about that
awesome achievement."
"He also built a death ray made of mirrors that could burn enemy ships," Leo
said. "Is that awesome enough for you?"
"I saw something about that on TV," Frank admitted. "They proved it didn't
work."
"Ah, that's just because modern mortals don't know how to use Celestial
bronze," Leo said. "That's the key. Archimedes also invented a massive claw
that could swing on a crane and pluck enemy ships out of the water."
"Okay, that's cool," Frank admitted. "I love grabber-arm games."
"Well, there you go," Leo said. "Anyway, all his inventions weren't enough.
The Romans destroyed his city. Archimedes was killed. According to legends,
the Roman general was a big fan of his work, so he raided Archimedes's
workshop and carted a bunch of souvenirs back to Rome. They disappeared from

history, except_" Leo waved his hands at the stuff on the tables. "Here they
are."
"Metal basketballs?" Hazel asked.
Leo couldn't believe that they didn't appreciate what they were looking at,
but he tried to contain his irritation. "Guys, Archimedes constructed spheres.
The Romans couldn't figure them out. They thought they were just for telling
time or following constellations, because they were covered with pictures of
stars and planets. But that's like finding a rifle and thinking it's a walking stick."
"Leo, the Romans were top-notch engineers," Hazel reminded him. "They
built aqueducts, roads-"
"Siege weapons," Frank added. "Public sanitation."
"Yeah, fine," Leo said. "But Archimedes was in a class by himself. His
spheres could do all sorts of things, only nobody is sure_"
Suddenly Leo got an idea so incredible that his nose burst into flames. He
patted it out as quickly as possible. Man, it was embarrassing when that
happened.
He ran to the row of cubbyholes and examined the markings on the scroll
cases. "Oh, gods. This is it!"
He gingerly lifted out one of the scrolls. He wasn't great at Ancient Greek,
but he could tell the inscription on the case read On Building Spheres.
"Guys, this is the lost book!" His hands were shaking. "Archimedes wrote
this, describing his construction methods, but all the copies were lost in ancient
times. If I can translate this_"
The possibilities were endless. For Leo, the quest had now totally taken on a
new dimension. Leo had to get the spheres and scrolls safely out of here. He had
to protect this stuff until he could get it back to Bunker 9 and study it.
"The secrets of Archimedes," he murmured. "Guys, this is bigger than
Daedalus's laptop. If there's a Roman attack on Camp Half-Blood, these secrets
could save the camp. They might even give us an edge over Gaea and the
giants!"
Hazel and Frank glanced at each other skeptically.
"Okay," Hazel said. "We didn't come here for a scroll, but I guess we can

take it with us."
"Assuming," Frank added, "that you don't mind sharing its secrets with us
stupid uncomplicated Romans."
"What?" Leo stared at him blankly. "No. Look, I didn't mean to insult- Ah,
never mind. The point is this is good news!"
For the first time in days, Leo felt really hopeful.
Naturally, that's when everything went wrong.
On the table next to Hazel and Frank, one of the orbs clicked and whirred. A
row of spindly legs extended from its equator. The orb stood, and two bronze
cables shot out of the top, hitting Hazel and Frank like Taser wires. Leo's friends
both crumpled to the floor.
Leo lunged to help them, but the two armored manikins that couldn't possibly
move did move. They drew their swords and stepped toward Leo.
The one on the left turned its crooked helmet, which was shaped like a wolf's
head. Despite the fact that it had no face or mouth, a familiar hollow voice spoke
from behind its visor.
"You cannot escape us, Leo Valdez," it said. "We do not like possessing
machines, but they are better than tourists. You will not leave here alive."

LEO AGREED WITH NEMESIS ABOUT ONE THING: good luck was a sham. At least
when it came to Leo's luck.
Last winter he had watched in horror while a family of Cyclopes prepared to
roast Jason and Piper with hot sauce. He'd schemed his way out of that one and
saved his friends all by himself, but at least he'd had time to think.
Now, not so much. Hazel and Frank had been knocked out by the tendrils of a
possessed steampunk bowling ball. Two suits of armor with bad attitudes were
about to kill him.
Leo couldn't blast them with fire. Suits of armor wouldn't be hurt by that.
Besides, Hazel and Frank were too close. He didn't want to burn them, or
accidentally hit the piece of firewood that controlled Frank's life.
On Leo's right, the suit of armor with a lion's head helmet creaked its wiry
neck and regarded Hazel and Frank, who were still lying unconscious.
"A male and female demigod," said Lion Head. "These will do, if the others
die." Its hollow face mask turned back to Leo. "We do not need you, Leo
Valdez."
"Oh, hey!" Leo tried for a winning smile. "You always need Leo Valdez!"
He spread his hands and hoped he looked confident and useful, not desperate

and terrified. He wondered if it was too late to write TEAM LEO on his shirt.
Sadly, the suits of armor were not as easily swayed as the Narcissus Fan Club
had been.
The one with the wolf-headed helmet snarled, "I have been in your mind,
Leo. I helped you start the war."
Leo's smile crumbled. He took a step back. "That was you?"
Now he understood why those tourists had bothered him right away, and why
this thing's voice sounded so familiar. He'd heard it in his mind.
"You made me fire the ballista?" Leo demanded. "You call that helping?"
"I know how you think," said Wolf Head. "I know your limits. You are small
and alone. You need friends to protect you. Without them, you are unable to
withstand me. I vowed not to possess you again, but I can still kill you."
The armored dudes stepped forward. The points of their swords hovered a
few inches from Leo's face.
Leo's fear suddenly made way for a whole lot of anger. This eidolon in the
wolf helmet had shamed him, controlled him, and made him attack New Rome.
It had endangered his friends and botched their quest.
Leo glanced at the dormant spheres on the worktables. He considered his tool
belt. He thought about the loft behind him-the area that looked like a sound
booth. Presto: Operation Junk Pile was born.
"First: you don't know me," he told Wolf Head. "And second: Bye."
He lunged for the stairs and bounded to the top. The suits of armor were
scary, but they were not fast. As Leo suspected, the loft had doors on either side
-folding metal gates. The operators would've wanted protection in case their
creations went haywire_like now. Leo slammed both gates shut and summoned
fire to his hands, fusing the locks.
The suits of armor closed in on either side. They rattled the gates, hacking at
them with their swords.
"This is foolish," said Lion Head. "You only delay your death."
"Delaying death is one of my favorite hobbies." Leo scanned his new home.
Overlooking the workshop was a single table like a control board. It was
crowded with junk, but most of it Leo dismissed immediately: a diagram for a

human catapult that would never work; a strange black sword (Leo was no good
with swords); a large bronze mirror (Leo's reflection looked terrible); and a set
of tools that someone had broken, either in frustration or clumsiness.
He focused on the main project. In the center of the table, someone had
disassembled an Archimedes sphere. Gears, springs, levers, and rods were
littered around it. All the bronze cables to the room below were connected to a
metal plate under the sphere. Leo could sense the Celestial bronze running
through the workshop like arteries from a heart-ready to conduct magical
energy from this spot.
"One basketball to rule them all," Leo muttered.
This sphere was a master regulator. He was standing at Ancient Roman
mission control.
"Leo Valdez!" the spirit howled. "Open this gate or I will kill you!"
"A fair and generous offer!" Leo said, his eyes still on the sphere. "Just let me
finish this. A last request, all right?"
That must have confused the spirits, because they momentarily stopped
hacking at the bars.
Leo's hands flew over the sphere, reassembling its missing pieces. Why did
the stupid Romans have to take apart such a beautiful machine? They had killed
Archimedes, stolen his stuff, then messed with a piece of equipment they could
never understand. On the other hand, at least they'd had the sense to lock it away
for two thousand years so that Leo could retrieve it.
The eidolons started pounding on the gates again.
"Who is it?" Leo called.
"Valdez!" Wolf Head bellowed.
"Valdez who?" Leo asked.
Eventually the eidolons would realize they couldn't get in. Then, if Wolf
Head truly knew Leo's mind, he would decide there were other ways to force his
cooperation. Leo had to work faster.
He connected the gears, got one wrong, and had to start again. Hephaestus's
Hand Grenades, this was hard!
Finally he got the last spring in place. The ham-fisted Romans had almost

ruined the tension adjuster, but Leo pulled a set of watchmaker's tools from his
belt and did some final calibrations. Archimedes was a genius-assuming this
thing actually worked.
He wound the starter coil. The gears began to turn. Leo closed the top of the
sphere and studied its concentric circles-similar to the ones on the workshop
door.
"Valdez!" Wolf Head pounded on the gate. "Our third comrade will kill your
friends!"
Leo cursed under his breath. Our third comrade. He glanced down at the
spindly-legged Taser ball that had knocked out Hazel and Frank. He had figured
eidolon number three was hiding inside that thing. But Leo still had to deduce
the right sequence to activate this control sphere.
"Yeah, okay," he called. "You got me. Just_just a sec."
"No more seconds!" Wolf Head shouted. "Open this gate now, or they die."
The possessed Taser ball lashed out with its tendrils and sent another shock
through Hazel and Frank. Their unconscious bodies flinched. That kind of
electricity might have stopped their hearts.
Leo held back tears. This was too hard. He couldn't do it.
He stared at the face of the sphere-seven rings, each one covered with tiny
Greek letters, numbers, and zodiac signs. The answer wouldn't be pi.
Archimedes would never do the same thing twice. Besides, just by putting his
hand on the sphere Leo could feel that the sequence had been generated
randomly. It was something only Archimedes would know.
Supposedly, Archimedes's last words had been: Don't disturb my circles.
No one knew what that meant, but Leo could apply it to this sphere. The lock
was much too complicated. Maybe if Leo had a few years, he could decipher the
markings and figure out the right combination, but he didn't even have a few
seconds.
He was out of time. Out of luck. And his friends were going to die.
A problem you cannot solve, said a voice in his mind.
Nemesis_she'd told him to expect this moment. Leo thrust his hand in his
pocket and brought out the fortune cookie. The goddess had warned him of a

great price for her help-as great as losing an eye. But if he didn't try, his
friends would die.
"I need the access code for this sphere," he said.
He broke open the cookie.

LEO UNFURLED THE LITTLE STRIP OF PAPER. IT READ:
THAT'S YOUR REQUEST? SERIOUSLY? (OVER)

On the back, the paper said:
YOUR LUCKY NUMBERS ARE: TWELVE, JUPITER, ORION, DELTA, THREE, THETA,
OMEGA. (WREAK VENGEANCE UPON GAEA, LEO VALDEZ.)

With trembling fingers, Leo turned the rings.
Outside the gates, Wolf Head growled in frustration. "If friends do not matter
to you, perhaps you need more incentive. Perhaps I should destroy these scrolls
instead-priceless works by Archimedes!"
The last ring clicked into place. The sphere hummed with power. Leo ran his
hands along the surface, sensing tiny buttons and levers awaiting his commands.
Magical and electrical pulses coursed via the Celestial bronze cables, and
surged through the entire room.
Leo had never played a musical instrument, but he imagined it must be like
this-knowing each key or note so well that you didn't really think about what
your hands were doing. You just concentrated on the kind of sound you wanted
to create.
He started small. He focused on one reasonably intact gold sphere down in

the main room. The gold sphere shuddered. It grew a tripod of legs and clattered
over to the Taser ball. A tiny circular saw popped out of the gold sphere's head,
and it began cutting into Taser ball's brain.
Leo tried to activate another orb. This one burst in a small mushroom cloud
of bronze dust and smoke.
"Oops," he muttered. "Sorry, Archimedes."
"What are you doing?" Wolf Head demanded. "Stop your foolishness and
surrender!"
"Oh, yes, I surrender!" Leo said. "I'm totally surrendering!"
He tried to take control of a third orb. That one broke too. Leo felt bad about
ruining all these ancient inventions, but this was life or death. Frank had accused
him of caring more for machines than people, but if it came down to saving old
spheres or his friends, there was no choice.
The fourth try went better. A ruby-encrusted orb popped its top and helicopter
blades unfolded. Leo was glad Buford the table wasn't here-he would've fallen
in love. The ruby orb spun into the air and sailed straight for the cubbyholes.
Thin golden arms extended from its middle and snapped up the precious scroll
cases.
"Enough!" Wolf Head yelled. "I will destroy the-"
He turned in time to see the ruby sphere take off with the scrolls. It zipped
across the room and hovered in the far corner.
"What?!" Wolf Head cried. "Kill the prisoners!"
He must have been talking to the Taser ball. Unfortunately, Taser ball was in
no shape to comply. Leo's gold sphere was sitting on top of its sawed-open head,
picking through its gears and wires like it was scooping out a pumpkin.
Thank the gods, Hazel and Frank began to stir.
"Bah!" Wolf Head gestured to Lion Head at the opposite gate. "Come! We
will destroy the demigods ourselves."
"I don't think so, guys." Leo turned toward Lion Head. His hands worked the
control sphere, and he felt a shock travel through the floor.
Lion Head shuddered and lowered his sword.
Leo grinned. "You're in Leo World, now."

Lion Head turned and stormed down the stairs. Instead of advancing on Hazel
and Leo, he marched up the opposite stairs and faced his comrade.
"What are you doing?" Wolf Head demanded. "We have to-"
BLONG!
Lion Head slammed his shield into Wolf Head's chest. He smashed the
pommel of his sword into his comrade's helmet, so Wolf Head became Flat,
Deformed, Not Very Happy Wolf Head.
"Stop that!" Wolf Head demanded.
"I cannot!" Lion Head wailed.
Leo was getting the hang of it now. He commanded both suits of armor to
drop their swords and shields and slap each other repeatedly.
"Valdez!" called Wolf Head in a warbling voice. "You will die for this!"
"Yeah," Leo called out. "Who's possessing who now, Casper?"
The machine men tumbled down the stairs, and Leo forced them to jitterbug
like 1920s flappers. Their joints began smoking. The other spheres around the
room began to pop. Too much energy was surging through the ancient system.
The control sphere in Leo's hand grew uncomfortably warm.
"Frank, Hazel!" Leo shouted. "Take cover!"
His friends were still dazed, staring in amazement at the jitterbugging metal
guys, but they got his warning. Frank pulled Hazel under the nearest table and
shielded her with his body.
One last twist of the sphere, and Leo sent a massive jolt through the system.
The armored warriors blew apart. Rods, pistons, and bronze shards flew
everywhere. On all the tables, spheres popped like hot soda cans. Leo's gold
sphere froze. His flying ruby orb dropped to the floor with the scroll cases.
The room was suddenly quiet except for a few random sparks and sizzles.
The air smelled like burning car engines. Leo raced down the stairs and found
Frank and Hazel safe under their table. He had never been so happy to see those
two hugging.
"You're alive!" he said.
Hazel's left eye twitched, maybe from the Taser shock. Otherwise she looked
okay. "Uh, what exactly happened?"

"Archimedes came through!" Leo said. "Just enough power left in those old
machines for one final show. Once I had the access code, it was easy."
He patted the control sphere, which was steaming in a bad way. Leo didn't
know if it could be fixed, but at the moment he was too relieved to care.
"The eidolons," Frank said. "Are they gone?"
Leo grinned. "My last command overloaded their kill switches-basically
locked down all their circuits and melted their cores."
"In English?" Frank asked.
"I trapped the eidolons inside the wiring," Leo said. "Then I melted them.
They won't be bothering anyone again."
Leo helped his friends to their feet.
"You saved us," Frank said.
"Don't sound so surprised." Leo glanced around the destroyed workshop.
"Too bad all this stuff got wrecked, but at least I salvaged the scrolls. If I can get
them back to Camp Half-Blood, maybe I can learn how to recreate Archimedes's
inventions."
Hazel rubbed the side of her head. "But I don't understand. Where is Nico?
That tunnel was supposed to lead us to Nico."
Leo had almost forgotten why they'd come down here in the first place. Nico
obviously wasn't here. The place was a dead end. So why_ ?
"Oh." He felt like there was a buzz-saw sphere on his own head, pulling out
his wires and gears. "Hazel, how exactly were you tracking Nico? I mean, could
you just sense him nearby because he was your brother?"
She frowned, still looking a bit wobbly from her electric shock treatment.
"Not-not totally. Sometimes I can tell when he's close, but, like I said, Rome is
so confusing, so much interference because of all the tunnels and caves-"
"You tracked him with your metal-finding senses," Leo guessed. "His
sword?"
She blinked. "How did you know?"
"You'd better come here." He led Hazel and Frank up to the control room and
pointed to the black sword.
"Oh. Oh, no." Hazel would've collapsed if Frank hadn't caught her. "But

that's impossible! Nico's sword was with him in the bronze jar. Percy saw it in
his dream!"
"Either the dream was wrong," Leo said, "or the giants moved the sword here
as a decoy."
"So this was a trap," Frank said. "We were lured here."
"But why?" Hazel cried. "Where's my brother?"
A hissing sound filled the control booth. At first, Leo thought the eidolons
were back. Then he realized the bronze mirror on the table was steaming.
Ah, my poor demigods. The sleeping face of Gaea appeared in the mirror. As
usual, she spoke without moving her mouth, which could only have been
creepier if she'd had a ventriloquism puppet. Leo hated those things.
You had your choice, Gaea said. Her voice echoed through the room. It
seemed to be coming not just from the mirror, but from the stone walls as well.
Leo realized she was all around them. Of course. They were in the earth.
They'd gone to all the trouble of building the Argo II so they could travel by sea
and air, and they'd ended up in the earth anyway.
I offered salvation to all of you, Gaea said. You could have turned back. Now
it is too late. You've come to the ancient lands where I am strongest-where I
will wake.
Leo pulled a hammer from his tool belt. He whacked the mirror. Being metal,
it just quivered like a tea tray, but it felt good to smash Gaea in the nose.
"In case you haven't noticed, Dirt Face," he said, "your little ambush failed.
Your three eidolons got melted in bronze, and we're fine."
Gaea laughed softly. Oh, my sweet Leo. You three have been separated from
your friends. That was the whole point.
The workshop door slammed shut.
You are trapped in my embrace, Gaea said. Meanwhile, Annabeth Chase
faces her death alone, terrified and crippled, at the hands of her mother's
greatest enemy.
The image in the mirror changed. Leo saw Annabeth sprawled on the floor of
a dark cavern, holding up her bronze knife as if warding off a monster. Her face
was gaunt. Her leg was wrapped up in some sort of splint. Leo couldn't see what

she was looking at, but it was obviously something horrible. He wanted to
believe the image was a lie, but he had a bad feeling it was real, and it was
happening right now.
The others, Gaea said, Jason Grace, Piper McLean, and my dear friend Percy
Jackson-they will perish within minutes.
The scene changed again. Percy was holding Riptide, leading Jason and Piper
down a spiral staircase into the darkness.
Their powers will betray them, Gaea said. They will die in their own elements.
I almost hoped they would survive. They would have made a better sacrifice. But
alas, Hazel and Frank, you will have to do. My minions will collect you shortly
and bring you to the ancient place. Your blood will awaken me at last. Until
then, I will allow you to watch your friends perish. Please_enjoy this last
glimpse of your failed quest.
Leo couldn't stand it. His hand glowed white hot. Hazel and Frank scrambled
back as he pressed his palm against the mirror and melted it into a puddle of
bronze goo.
The voice of Gaea went silent. Leo could only hear the roar of blood in his
ears. He took a shaky breath.
"Sorry," he told his friends. "She was getting annoying."
"What do we do?" Frank asked. "We have to get out and help the others."
Leo scanned the workshop, now littered with smoking pieces of broken
spheres. His friends still needed him. This was still his show. As long as he had
his tool belt, Leo Valdez wasn't going to sit around helplessly watching the
Demigod Death Channel.
"I've got an idea," he said. "But it's going to take all three of us."
He started telling them the plan.

PIPER TRIED TO MAKE THE BEST OF THE SITUATION.
Once she and Jason had gotten tired of pacing the deck, listening to Coach
Hedge sing "Old MacDonald" (with weapons instead of animals), they decided
to have a picnic in the park.
Hedge grudgingly agreed. "Stay where I can see you."
"What are we, kids?" Jason asked.
Hedge snorted. "Kids are baby goats. They're cute, and they have redeeming
social value. You are definitely not kids."
They spread their blanket under a willow tree next to a pond. Piper turned
over her cornucopia and spilled out an entire meal-neatly wrapped sandwiches,
canned drinks, fresh fruit, and (for some reason) a birthday cake with purple
icing and candles already lit.
She frowned. "Is it someone's birthday?"
Jason winced. "I wasn't going to say anything."
"Jason!"
"There's too much going on," he said. "And honestly_before last month, I
didn't even know when my birthday was. Thalia told me the last time she was at
camp."

Piper wondered what that would be like-not even knowing the day you were
born. Jason had been given to Lupa the wolf when he was only two years old.
He'd never really known his mortal mom. He'd only been reunited with his
sister last winter.
"July First," Piper said. "The Kalends of July."
"Yeah." Jason smirked. "The Romans would find that auspicious-the first
day of the month named for Julius Caesar. Juno's sacred day. Yippee."
Piper didn't want to push it, or make a celebration if he didn't feel like
celebrating.
"Sixteen?" she asked.
He nodded. "Oh, boy. I can get my driver's license."
Piper laughed. Jason had killed so many monsters and saved the world so
many times that the idea of him sweating a driving test seemed ridiculous. She
pictured him behind the wheel of some old Lincoln with a STUDENT DRIVER sign
on top and a grumpy teacher in the passenger seat with an emergency brake
pedal.
"Well?" she urged. "Blow out the candles."
Jason did. Piper wondered if he'd made a wish-hopefully that he and Piper
would survive this quest and stay together forever. She decided not to ask him.
She didn't want to jinx that wish, and she definitely didn't want to find out that
he'd wished for something different.
Since they'd left the Pillars of Hercules yesterday evening, Jason had seemed
distracted. Piper couldn't blame him. Hercules had been a pretty huge
disappointment as a big brother, and the old river god Achelous had said some
unflattering things about the sons of Jupiter.
Piper stared at the cornucopia. She wondered if Achelous was getting used to
having no horns at all. She hoped so. Sure, he had tried to kill them, but Piper
still felt bad for the old god. She didn't understand how such a lonely, depressed
spirit could produce a horn of plenty that shot out pineapples and birthday cakes.
Could it be that the cornucopia had drained all the goodness out of him? Maybe
now that the horn was gone, Achelous would be able to fill up with some
happiness and keep it for himself.

She also kept thinking about Achelous's advice: If you had made it to Rome,
the story of the flood would have served you better. She knew the story he was
talking about. She just didn't understand how it would help.
Jason plucked an extinguished candle from his cake. "I've been thinking."
That snapped Piper back to the present. Coming from your boyfriend, I've
been thinking was kind of a scary line.
"About?" she asked.
"Camp Jupiter," he said. "All the years I trained there. We were always
pushing teamwork, working as a unit. I thought I understood what that meant.
But honestly? I was always the leader. Even when I was younger-"
"The son of Jupiter," Piper said. "Most powerful kid in the legion. You were
the star."
Jason looked uncomfortable, but he didn't deny it. "Being in this crew of
seven_I'm not sure what to do. I'm not used to being one of so many, well,
equals. I feel like I'm failing."
Piper took his hand. "You're not failing."
"It sure felt that way when Chrysaor attacked," Jason said. "I've spent most
of this trip knocked out and helpless."
"Come on," she chided. "Being a hero doesn't mean you're invincible. It just
means that you're brave enough to stand up and do what's needed."
"And if I don't know what's needed?"
"That's what your friends are for. We've all got different strengths. Together,
we'll figure it out."
Jason studied her. Piper wasn't sure that he bought what she was saying, but
she was glad he could confide in her. She liked that he had a little self-doubt. He
didn't succeed all the time. He didn't think the universe owed him an apology
whenever something went wrong-unlike another son of the sky god she'd
recently met.
"Hercules was a jerk," he said, as if reading her thoughts. "I never want to be
like that. But I wouldn't have had the courage to stand up to him without your
taking the lead. You were the hero that time."
"We can take turns," she suggested.

"I don't deserve you."
"You're not allowed to say that."
"Why not?"
"It's a breakup line. Unless you're breaking up-"
Jason leaned over and kissed her. The colors of the Roman afternoon
suddenly seemed sharper, as if the world had switched to high definition.
"No breakups," he promised. "I may have busted my head a few times, but
I'm not that stupid."
"Good," she said. "Now, about that cake-"
Her voice faltered. Percy Jackson was running toward them, and Piper could
tell from his expression that he brought bad news.
They gathered on deck so that Coach Hedge could hear the story. When Percy
was done, Piper still couldn't believe it.
"So Annabeth was kidnapped on a motor scooter," she summed up, "by
Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn."
"Not kidnapped, exactly," Percy said. "But I've got this bad feeling._" He
took a deep breath, like he was trying hard not to freak out. "Anyway, she's-
she's gone. Maybe I shouldn't have let her, but-"
"You had to," Piper said. "You knew she had to go alone. Besides, Annabeth
is tough and smart. She'll be fine."
Piper put some charmspeak in her voice, which maybe wasn't cool, but Percy
needed to be able to focus. If they went into battle, Annabeth wouldn't want him
getting hurt because he was too distracted about her.
His shoulders relaxed a little. "Maybe you're right. Anyway, Gregory-I
mean Tiberinus-said we had less time to rescue Nico than we thought. Hazel
and the guys aren't back yet?"
Piper checked the time on the helm control. She hadn't realized how late it
was getting. "It's two in the afternoon. We said three o'clock for a rendezvous."
"At the latest," Jason said.
Percy pointed at Piper's dagger. "Tiberinus said you could find Nico's
location_you know, with that."

Piper bit her lip. The last thing she wanted to do was check Katoptris for
more terrifying images.
"I've tried," she said. "The dagger doesn't always show what I want to see. In
fact, it hardly ever does."
"Please," Percy said. "Try again."
He pleaded with those sea-green eyes, like a cute baby seal that needed help.
Piper wondered how Annabeth ever won an argument with this guy.
"Fine," she sighed, and drew her dagger.
"While you're at it," said Coach Hedge, "see if you can get the latest baseball
scores. Italians don't cover baseball worth beans."
"Shh." Piper studied the bronze blade. The light shimmered. She saw a loft
apartment filled with Roman demigods. A dozen of them stood around a dining
table as Octavian talked and pointed to a big map. Reyna paced next to the
windows, gazing down at Central Park.
"That's not good," Jason muttered. "They've already set up a forward base in
Manhattan."
"And that map shows Long Island," Percy said.
"They're scouting the territory," Jason guessed. "Discussing invasion routes."
Piper did not want to see that. She concentrated harder. Light rippled across
the blade. She saw ruins-a few crumbling walls, a single column, a stone floor
covered with moss and dead vines-all clustered on a grassy hillside dotted with
pine trees.
"I was just there," Percy said. "That's in the old Forum."
The view zoomed in. On one side of the stone floor, a set of stairs had been
excavated, leading down to a modern iron gate with a padlock. The blade's
image zoomed straight through the doorway, down a spiral stairwell, and into a
dark, cylindrical chamber like the inside of a grain silo.
Piper dropped the blade.
"What's wrong?" Jason asked. "It was showing us something."
Piper felt like the boat was back on the ocean, rocking under her feet. "We
can't go there."
Percy frowned. "Piper, Nico is dying. We've got to find him. Not to mention,

Rome is about to get destroyed."
Her voice wouldn't work. She'd kept that vision of the circular room to
herself for so long, now she found it impossible to talk about. She had a horrible
feeling that explaining it to Percy and Jason wouldn't change anything. She
couldn't stop what was about to happen.
She picked up the knife again. Its hilt seemed colder than usual.
She forced herself to look at the blade. She saw two giants in gladiator armor
sitting on oversized praetors' chairs. The giants toasted each other with golden
goblets as if they'd just won an important fight. Between them stood a large
bronze jar.
The vision zoomed in again. Inside the jar, Nico di Angelo was curled in a
ball, no longer moving, all the pomegranate seeds eaten.
"We're too late," Jason said.
"No," Percy said. "No, I can't believe that. Maybe he's gone into a deeper
trance to buy time. We have to hurry."
The blade's surface went dark. Piper slipped it back into its sheath, trying to
keep her hands from shaking. She hoped that Percy was right and Nico was still
alive. On the other hand, she didn't see how that image connected with the
vision of the drowning room. Maybe the giants were toasting each other because
she and Percy and Jason were dead.
"We should wait for the others," she said. "Hazel, Frank, and Leo should be
back soon."
"We can't wait," Percy insisted.
Coach Hedge grunted. "It's just two giants. If you guys want, I can take
them."
"Uh, Coach," Jason said, "that's a great offer, but we need you to man the
ship-or goat the ship. Whatever."
Hedge scowled. "And let you three have all the fun?"
Percy gripped the satyr's arm. "Hazel and the others need you here. When
they get back, they'll need your leadership. You're their rock."
"Yeah." Jason managed to keep a straight face. "Leo always says you're his
rock. You can tell them where we've gone and bring the ship around to meet us

at the Forum."
"And here." Piper unstrapped Katoptris and put it in Coach Hedge's hands.
The satyr's eyes widened. A demigod was never supposed to leave her
weapon behind, but Piper was fed up with evil visions. She'd rather face her
death without any more previews.
"Keep an eye on us with the blade," she suggested. "And you can check the
baseball scores."
That sealed the deal. Hedge nodded grimly, prepared to do his part for the
quest.
"All right," he said. "But if any giants come this way-"
"Feel free to blast them," Jason said.
"What about annoying tourists?"
"No," they all said in unison.
"Bah. Fine. Just don't take too long, or I'm coming after you with ballistae
blazing."

FINDING THE PLACE WAS EASY. Percy led them right to it, on an abandoned stretch
of hillside overlooking the ruined Forum.
Getting in was easy too. Jason's gold sword cut through the padlock, and the
metal gate creaked open. No mortals saw them. No alarms went off. Stone steps
spiraled down into the gloom.
"I'll go first," Jason said.
"No!" Piper yelped.
Both boys turned toward her.
"Pipes, what is it?" Jason asked. "That image in the blade_you've seen it
before, haven't you?"
She nodded, her eyes stinging. "I didn't know how to tell you. I saw the room
down there filling with water. I saw the three of us drowning."
Jason and Percy both frowned.
"I can't drown," Percy said, though he sounded like he was asking a question.
"Maybe the future has changed," Jason speculated. "In the image you showed
us just now, there wasn't any water."
Piper wished he was right, but she suspected they wouldn't be so lucky.
"Look," Percy said. "I'll check it out first. It's fine. Be right back."

Before Piper could object, he disappeared down the stairwell.
She counted silently as they waited for him to come back. Somewhere around
thirty-five, she heard his footsteps, and he appeared at the top, looking more
baffled than relieved.
"Good news: no water," he said. "Bad news: I don't see any exits down there.
And, uh, weird news: well, you should see this._"
They descended cautiously. Percy took the lead, with Riptide drawn. Piper
followed, and Jason walked behind her, guarding their backs. The stairwell was
a cramped corkscrew of masonry, no more than six feet in diameter. Even
though Percy had given the "all clear," Piper kept her eyes open for traps. With
every turn of the stairs, she anticipated an ambush. She had no weapon, just the
cornucopia on a leather cord over her shoulder. If worse came to worst, the boys'
swords wouldn't do much good in such close quarters. Maybe Piper could shoot
their enemies with high-velocity smoked hams.
As they wound their way underground, Piper saw old graffiti gouged into the
stones: Roman numerals, names and phrases in Italian. That meant other people
had been down here more recently than the Roman Empire, but Piper wasn't
reassured. If monsters were below, they'd ignore mortals, waiting for some nice
juicy demigods to come along.
Finally, they reached the bottom.
Percy turned. "Watch this last step."
He jumped to the floor of the cylindrical room, which was five feet lower
than the stairwell. Why would someone design a set of stairs like that? Piper had
no idea. Maybe the room and the stairwell had been built during different time
periods.
She wanted to turn and exit, but she couldn't do that with Jason behind her,
and she couldn't just leave Percy down there. She clambered down, and Jason
followed.
The room was just like she'd seen it in Katoptris's blade, except there was no
water. The curved walls had once been painted with frescoes, which were now
faded to eggshell white with only flecks of color. The domed ceiling was about
fifty feet above.

Around the back side of the room, opposite the stairwell, nine alcoves were
carved into the wall. Each niche was about five feet off the floor and big enough
for a human-sized statue, but each was empty.
The air felt cold and dry. As Percy had said, there were no other exits.
"All right." Percy raised his eyebrows. "Here's the weird part. Watch."
He stepped to the middle of the room.
Instantly, green and blue light rippled across the walls. Piper heard the sound
of a fountain, but there was no water. There didn't seem to be any source of light
except for Percy's and Jason's blades.
"Do you smell the ocean?" Percy asked.
Piper hadn't noticed at first. She was standing next to Percy, and he always
smelled like the sea. But he was right. The scent of salt water and storm was
getting stronger, like a summer hurricane approaching.
"An illusion?" she asked. All of a sudden, she felt strangely thirsty.
"I don't know," Percy said. "I feel like there should be water here-lots of
water. But there isn't any. I've never been in a place like this."
Jason moved to the row of niches. He touched the bottom shelf of the nearest
one, which was just at his eye level. "This stone_it's embedded with seashells.
This is a nymphaeum."
Piper's mouth was definitely getting drier. "A what?"
"We have one at Camp Jupiter," Jason said, "on Temple Hill. It's a shrine to
the nymphs."
Piper ran her hand along the bottom of another niche. Jason was right. The
alcove was studded with cowries, conches, and scallops. The seashells seemed to
dance in the watery light. They were ice-cold to the touch.
Piper had always thought of nymphs as friendly spirits-silly and flirtatious,
generally harmless. They got along well with the children of Aphrodite. They
loved to share gossip and beauty tips. This place, though, didn't feel like the
canoe lake back at Camp Half-Blood, or the streams in the woods where Piper
normally met nymphs. This place felt unnatural, hostile, and very dry.
Jason stepped back and examined the row of alcoves. "Shrines like this were
all over the place in Ancient Rome. Rich people had them outside their villas to

honor nymphs, to make sure the local water was always fresh. Some shrines
were built around natural springs, but most were man-made."
"So_no actual nymphs lived here?" Piper asked hopefully.
"Not sure," Jason said. "This place where we're standing would have been a
pool with a fountain. A lot of times, if the nymphaeum belonged to a demigod,
he or she would invite nymphs to live there. If the spirits took up residence, that
was considered good luck."
"For the owner," Percy guessed. "But it would also bind the nymphs to the
new water source, which would be great if the fountain was in a nice sunny park
with fresh water pumped in through the aqueducts-"
"But this place has been underground for centuries," Piper guessed. "Dry and
buried. What would happen to the nymphs?"
The sound of water changed to a chorus of hissing, like ghostly snakes. The
rippling light shifted from sea blue and green to purple and sickly lime. Above
them, the nine niches glowed. They were no longer empty.
Standing in each was a withered old woman, so dried up and brittle they
reminded Piper of mummies-except mummies didn't normally move. Their
eyes were dark purple, as if the clear blue water of their life source had
condensed and thickened inside them. Their fine silk dresses were now tattered
and faded. Their hair had once been piled in curls, arranged with jewels in the
style of Roman noblewomen, but now their locks were disheveled and dry as
straw. If water cannibals actually existed, Piper thought, this is what they looked
like.
"What would happen to the nymphs?" said the creature in the center niche.
She was in even worse shape than the others. Her back was hunched like the
handle of a pitcher. Her skeletal hands had only the thinnest papery layer of skin.
On her head, a battered wreath of golden laurels glinted in her roadkill hair.
She fixed her purple eyes on Piper. "What an interesting question, my dear.
Perhaps the nymphs would still be here, suffering, waiting for revenge."
The next time that she got a chance, Piper swore she would melt down Katoptris
and sell it for scrap metal. The stupid knife never showed her the whole story.

Sure, she'd seen herself drowning. But if she'd realized that nine desiccated
zombie nymphs would be waiting for her, she never would've come down here.
She considered bolting for the stairs, but when she turned, the doorway had
disappeared. Naturally. Nothing was there now but a blank wall. Piper suspected
it wasn't just an illusion. Besides, she would never make it to the opposite side
of the room before the zombie nymphs could jump on them.
Jason and Percy stood to either side of her, their swords ready. Piper was glad
to have them close, but she suspected their weapons wouldn't do any good.
She'd seen what would happen in this room. Somehow, these things were going
to defeat them.
"Who are you?" Percy demanded.
The central nymph turned her head. "Ah_names. We once had names. I was
Hagno, the first of the nine!"
Piper thought it was a cruel joke that a hag like her would be named Hagno,
but she decided not to say that.
"The nine," Jason repeated. "The nymphs of this shrine. There were always
nine niches."
"Of course." Hagno bared her teeth in a vicious smile. "But we are the
original nine, Jason Grace, the ones who attended the birth of your father."
Jason's sword dipped. "You mean Jupiter? You were there when he was
born?"
"Zeus, we called him then," Hagno said. "Such a squealing whelp. We
attended Rhea in her labor. When the baby arrived, we hid him so that his father,
Kronos, would not eat him. Ah, he had lungs, that baby! It was all we could do
to drown out the noise so Kronos could not find him. When Zeus grew up, we
were promised eternal honors. But that was in the old country, in Greece."
The other nymphs wailed and clawed at their niches. They seemed to be
trapped in them, Piper realized, as if their feet were glued to the stone along with
the decorative seashells.
"When Rome rose to power, we were invited here," Hagno said. "A son of
Jupiter tempted us with favors. A new home, he promised. Bigger and better! No
down payment, an excellent neighborhood. Rome will last forever."

"Forever," the others hissed.
"We gave in to temptation," Hagno said. "We left our simple wells and
springs on Mount Lycaeus and moved here. For centuries, our lives were
wonderful! Parties, sacrifices in our honor, new dresses and jewelry every week.
All the demigods of Rome flirted with us and honored us."
The nymphs wailed and sighed.
"But Rome did not last," Hagno snarled. "The aqueducts were diverted. Our
master's villa was abandoned and torn down. We were forgotten, buried under
the earth, but we could not leave. Our life sources were bound to this place. Our
old master never saw fit to release us. For centuries, we have withered here in
the darkness, thirsty_so thirsty."
The others clawed at their mouths.
Piper felt her own throat closing up.
"I'm sorry for you," she said, trying to use charmspeak. "That must have
been terrible. But we are not your enemies. If we can help you-"
"Oh, such a sweet voice!" Hagno cried. "Such beautiful features. I was once
young like you. My voice was as soothing as a mountain stream. But do you
know what happens to a nymph's mind when she is trapped in the dark, with
nothing to feed on but hatred, nothing to drink but thoughts of violence? Yes, my
dear. You can help us."
Percy raised his hand. "Uh_I'm the son of Poseidon. Maybe I can summon a
new water source."
"Ha!" Hagno cried, and the other eight echoed, "Ha! Ha!"
"Indeed, son of Poseidon," Hagno said. "I know your father well. Ephialtes
and Otis promised you would come."
Piper put her hand on Jason's arm for balance.
"The giants," she said. "You're working for them?"
"They are our neighbors." Hagno smiled. "Their chambers lie beyond this
place, where the aqueduct's water was diverted for the games. Once we have
dealt with you_once you have helped us_the twins have promised we will
never suffer again."
Hagno turned to Jason. "You, child of Jupiter-for the horrible betrayal of

your predecessor who brought us here, you shall pay. I know the sky god's
powers. I raised him as a baby! Once, we nymphs controlled the rain above our
wells and springs. When I am done with you, we will have that power again.
And Percy Jackson, child of the sea god_from you, we will take water, an
endless supply of water."
"Endless?" Percy's eyes darted from one nymph to the other. "Uh_look, I
don't know about endless. But maybe I could spare a few gallons."
"And you, Piper McLean." Hagno's purple eyes glistened. "So young, so
lovely, so gifted with your sweet voice. From you, we will reclaim our beauty.
We have saved our last life force for this day. We are very thirsty. From you
three, we shall drink!"
All nine niches glowed. The nymphs disappeared, and water poured from
their alcoves-sickly dark water, like oil.

PIPER NEEDED A MIRACLE, not a bedtime story. But right then, standing in shock
as black water poured in around her legs, she recalled the legend Achelous had
mentioned-the story of the flood.
Not the Noah story, but the Cherokee version that her father used to tell her,
with the dancing ghosts and the skeleton dog.
When she was little, she would cuddle next to her dad in his big recliner.
She'd gaze out the windows at the Malibu coastline, and her dad would tell her
the story he'd heard from Grandpa Tom back on the rez in Oklahoma.
"This man had a dog," her father always began.
"You can't start a story that way!" Piper protested. "You have to say Once
upon a time."
Dad laughed. "But this is a Cherokee story. They are pretty straightforward.
So, anyway, this man had a dog. Every day the man took his dog to the edge of
the lake to get water, and the dog would bark furiously at the lake, like he was
mad at it."
"Was he?"
"Be patient, sweetheart. Finally the man got very annoyed with his dog for
barking so much, and he scolded it. 'Bad dog! Stop barking at the water. It's

only water!' To his surprise, the dog looked right at him and began to talk."
"Our dog can say Thank you," Piper volunteered. "And she can bark Out."
"Sort of," her dad agreed. "But this dog spoke entire sentences. The dog said,
'One day soon, the storms will come. The waters will rise, and everyone will
drown. You can save yourself and your family by building a raft, but first you
will need to sacrifice me. You must throw me into the water.'"
"That's terrible!" Piper said. "I would never drown my dog!"
"The man probably said the same thing. He thought the dog was lying-I
mean, once he got over the shock that his dog could talk. When he protested, the
dog said, 'If you don't believe me, look at the scruff of my neck. I am already
dead.'"
"That's sad! Why are you telling me this?"
"Because you asked me to," her dad reminded her. And indeed, something
about the story fascinated Piper. She had heard it dozens of times, but she kept
thinking about it.
"Anyway," said her dad, "the man grabbed the dog by the scruff of its neck
and saw that its skin and fur were already coming apart. Underneath was nothing
but bones. The dog was a skeleton dog."
"Gross."
"I agree. So with tears in his eyes, the man said good-bye to his annoying
skeleton dog and tossed it into the water, where it promptly sank. The man built
a raft, and when the flood came, he and his family survived."
"Without the dog."
"Yes. Without the dog. When the rains subsided, and the raft landed, the man
and his family were the only ones alive. The man heard sounds from the other
side of a hill-like thousands of people laughing and dancing-but when he
raced to the top, alas, down below he saw nothing except bones littering the
ground-thousands of skeletons of all the people who had died in the flood. He
realized the ghosts of the dead had been dancing. That was the sound he heard."
Piper waited. "And?"
"And, nothing. The end."
"You can't end it that way! Why were the ghosts dancing?"

"I don't know," Dad said. "Your grandfather never felt the need to explain.
Maybe the ghosts were happy that one family had survived. Maybe they were
enjoying the afterlife. They're ghosts. Who can say?"
Piper was very unsatisfied with that. She had so many unanswered questions.
Did the family ever find another dog? Obviously not all dogs drowned, because
she herself had a dog.
She couldn't shake the story. She never looked at dogs the same way,
wondering if one of them might be a skeleton dog. And she didn't understand
why the family had to sacrifice their dog to survive. Sacrificing yourself to save
your family seemed like a noble thing-a very doglike thing to do.
Now, in the nymphaeum in Rome, as the dark water rose to her waist, Piper
wondered why the river god Achelous had mentioned that story.
She wished she had a raft, but she feared she was more like the skeleton dog.
She was already dead.

THE BASIN FILLED WITH ALARMING SPEED. Piper, Jason, and Percy pounded on the
walls, looking for an exit, but they found nothing. They climbed into the alcoves
to gain some height, but with water pouring out of each niche, it was like trying
to balance at the edge of a waterfall. Even as Piper stood in a niche, the water
was soon up to her knees. From the floor, it was probably eight feet deep and
rising fast.
"I could try lightning," Jason said. "Maybe blast a hole in the roof?"
"That could bring down the whole room and crush us," Piper said.
"Or electrocute us," Percy added.
"Not many choices," Jason said.
"Let me search the bottom," Percy said. "If this place was built as a fountain,
there has to be a way to drain the thing. You guys, check the niches for secret
exits. Maybe the seashells are knobs, or something." It was a desperate idea, but
Piper was glad for something to do.
Percy jumped in the water. Jason and Piper climbed from niche to niche,
kicking and pounding, wiggling seashells embedded in the stone; but they had
no luck.
Sooner than Piper expected, Percy broke the surface, gasping and flailing.

She offered her hand, and he almost pulled her in before she could help him up.
"Couldn't breathe," he choked. "The water_not normal. Hardly made it
back."
The life force of the nymphs, Piper thought. It was so poisoned and
malicious, even a son of the sea god couldn't control it.
As the water rose around her, Piper felt it affecting her too. Her leg muscles
trembled like she'd been running for miles. Her hands turned wrinkled and dry,
despite being in the middle of a fountain.
The boys moved sluggishly. Jason's face was pale. He seemed to be having
trouble holding his sword. Percy was drenched and shivering. His hair didn't
look quite so dark, as if the color was leaching out.
"They're taking our power," Piper said. "Draining us."
"Jason," Percy coughed, "do the lightning."
Jason raised his sword. The room rumbled, but no lightning appeared. The
roof didn't break. Instead, a miniature rainstorm formed at the top of the
chamber. Rain poured down, filling the fountain even faster, but it wasn't
normal rain. The stuff was just as dark as the water in the pool. Every drop stung
Piper's skin.
"Not what I wanted," Jason said.
The water was up to their necks now. Piper could feel her strength fading.
Grandpa Tom's story about the water cannibals was true. Bad nymphs would
steal her life.
"We'll survive," she murmured to herself, but she couldn't charmspeak her
way out of this. Soon the poisonous water would be over their heads. They'd
have to swim, and this stuff was already paralyzing them.
They would drown, just like in the visions she'd seen.
Percy started pushing the water away with the back of his hand, like he was
shooing a bad dog. "Can't-can't control it!"
You will need to sacrifice me, the skeleton dog had said in the story. You must
throw me into the water.
Piper felt like someone had grabbed the scruff of her neck and exposed the
bones. She clutched her cornucopia.

"We can't fight this," she said. "If we hold back, that just makes us weaker."
"What do you mean?" Jason shouted over the rain.
The water was up to their chins. Another few inches, and they'd have to
swim. But the water wasn't halfway to the ceiling yet. Piper hoped that meant
that they still had time.
"The horn of plenty," she said. "We have to overwhelm the nymphs with
fresh water, give them more than they can use. If we can dilute this poisonous
stuff-"
"Can your horn do that?" Percy struggled to keep his head above water,
which was obviously a new experience for him. He looked scared out of his
mind.
"Only with your help." Piper was beginning to understand how the horn
worked. The good stuff it produced didn't come from nowhere. She'd only been
able to bury Hercules in groceries when she had concentrated on all her positive
experiences with Jason.
To create enough clean fresh water to fill this room, she needed to go even
deeper, tap her emotions even more. Unfortunately, she was losing her ability to
focus.
"I need you both to channel everything you've got into the cornucopia," she
said. "Percy, think about the sea."
"Salt water?"
"Doesn't matter! As long as it's clean. Jason, think about rainstorms-much
more rain. Both of you hold the cornucopia."
They huddled together as the water lifted them off their ledges. Piper tried to
remember the safety lessons her dad had given her when they had started
surfing. To help someone who's drowning, you put your arm around them from
behind and kick your legs in front of you, moving backward like you're doing
the backstroke. She wasn't sure if the same strategy could work with two other
people, but she put one arm around each boy and tried to keep them afloat as
they held the cornucopia between them.
Nothing happened. The rain came down in sheets, still dark and acidic.
Piper's legs felt like lead. The rising water swirled, threatening to pull her

under. She could feel her strength fading.
"No good!" Jason yelled, spitting water.
"We're getting nowhere," Percy agreed.
"You have to work together," Piper cried, hoping she was right. "Both of you
think of clean water-a storm of water. Don't hold anything back. Picture all
your power, all your strength leaving you."
"That's not hard!" Percy said.
"But force it out!" she said. "Offer up everything, like-like you're already
dead, and your only goal is to help the nymphs. It's got to be a gift_a sacrifice."
They got quiet at that word.
"Let's try again," Jason said. "Together."
This time Piper bent all her concentration toward the horn of plenty as well.
The nymphs wanted her youth, her life, her voice? Fine. She gave it up willingly
and imagined all of her power flooding out of her.
I'm already dead, she told herself, as calm as the skeleton dog. This is the
only way.
Clear water blasted from the horn with such force, it pushed them against the
wall. The rain changed to a white torrent, so clean and cold, it made Piper gasp.
"It's working!" Jason cried.
"Too well," Percy said. "We're filling the room even faster!"
He was right. The water rose so quickly, the roof was now only a few feet
away. Piper could've reached up and touched the miniature rain clouds.
"Don't stop!" she said. "We have to dilute the poison until the nymphs are
cleansed."
"What if they can't be cleansed?" Jason asked. "They've been down here
turning evil for thousands of years."
"Just don't hold back," Piper said. "Give everything. Even if we go under-"
Her head hit the ceiling. The rainclouds dissipated and melted into the water.
The horn of plenty kept blasting out a clean torrent.
Piper pulled Jason closer and kissed him.
"I love you," she said.
The words just poured out of her, like the water from the cornucopia. She

couldn't tell what his reaction was, because then they were underwater.
She held her breath. The current roared in her ears. Bubbles swirled around
her. Light still rippled through the room, and Piper was surprised she could see
it. Was the water getting clearer?
Her lungs were about to burst, but Piper poured her last energy into the
cornucopia. Water continued to stream out, though there was no room for more.
Would the walls crack under the pressure?
Piper's vision went dark.
She thought the roar in her ears was her own dying heartbeat. Then she
realized the room was shaking. The water swirled faster. Piper felt herself
sinking.
With her last strength, she kicked upward. Her head broke the surface and she
gasped for breath. The cornucopia stopped. The water was draining almost as
fast as it had filled the room.
With a cry of alarm, Piper realized that Percy's and Jason's faces were still
underwater. She hoisted them up. Instantly, Percy gulped and began to thrash,
but Jason was as lifeless as a rag doll.
Piper clung to him. She yelled his name, shook him, and slapped his face. She
barely noticed when all the water had drained away and left them on the damp
floor.
"Jason!" She tried desperately to think. Should she turn him on his side? Slap
his back?
"Piper," Percy said, "I can help."
He knelt next to her and touched Jason's forehead. Water gushed from
Jason's mouth. His eyes flew open, and a clap of thunder threw Percy and Piper
backward.
When Piper's vision cleared, she saw Jason sitting up, still gasping, but the
color was coming back to his face.
"Sorry," he coughed. "Didn't mean to-"
Piper tackled him with a hug. She would have kissed him, but she didn't want
to suffocate him.
Percy grinned. "In case you're wondering, that was clean water in your lungs.

I could make it come out with no problem."
"Thanks, man." Jason clasped his hand weakly. "But I think Piper's the real
hero. She saved us all."
Yes, she did, a voice echoed through the chamber.
The niches glowed. Nine figures appeared, but they were no longer withered
creatures. They were young, beautiful nymphs in shimmering blue gowns, their
glossy black curls pinned up with silver and gold brooches. Their eyes were
gentle shades of blue and green.
As Piper watched, eight of the nymphs dissolved into vapor and floated
upward. Only the nymph in the center remained.
"Hagno?" Piper asked.
The nymph smiled. "Yes, my dear. I didn't think such selflessness existed in
mortals_especially in demigods. No offense."
Percy got to his feet. "How could we take offense? You just tried to drown us
and suck out our lives."
Hagno winced. "Sorry about that. I was not myself. But you have reminded
me of the sun and the rain and the streams in the meadows. Percy and Jason,
thanks to you, I remembered the sea and the sky. I am cleansed. But mostly,
thanks to Piper. She shared something even better than clear running water."
Hagno turned to her. "You have a good nature, Piper. And I'm a nature spirit. I
know what I'm talking about."
Hagno pointed to the other side of the room. The stairs to the surface
reappeared. Directly underneath, a circular opening shimmered into existence,
like a sewer pipe, just big enough to crawl through. Piper suspected this was how
the water had drained out.
"You may return to the surface," Hagno said. "Or, if you insist, you may
follow the waterway to the giants. But choose quickly, because both doors will
fade soon after I am gone. That pipe connects to the old aqueduct line, which
feeds both this nymphaeum and the hypogeum that the giants call home."
"Ugh." Percy pressed on his temples. "Please, no more complicated words."
"Oh, home is not a complicated word." Hagno sounded completely sincere. "I
thought it was, but now you have unbound us from this place. My sisters have

gone to seek new homes_a mountain stream, perhaps, or a lake in a meadow. I
will follow them. I cannot wait to see the forests and grasslands again, and the
clear running water."
"Uh," Percy said nervously, "things have changed up above in the last few
thousand years."
"Nonsense," Hagno said. "How bad could it be? Pan would not allow nature
to become tainted. I can't wait to see him, in fact."
Percy looked like he wanted to say something, but he stopped himself.
"Good luck, Hagno," Piper said. "And thank you."
The nymph smiled one last time and vaporized.
Briefly, the nymphaeum glowed with a softer light, like a full moon. Piper
smelled exotic spices and blooming roses. She heard distant music and happy
voices talking and laughing. She guessed she was hearing hundreds of years of
parties and celebrations that had been held at this shrine in ancient times, as if
the memories had been freed along with the spirits.
"What is that?" Jason asked nervously.
Piper slipped her hand into his. "The ghosts are dancing. Come on. We'd
better go meet the giants."

PERCY WAS TIRED OF WATER.
If he said that aloud, he would probably get kicked out of Poseidon's Junior
Sea Scouts, but he didn't care.
After barely surviving the nymphaeum, he wanted to go back to the surface.
He wanted to be dry and sit in the warm sunshine for a long time-preferably
with Annabeth.
Unfortunately, he didn't know where Annabeth was. Frank, Hazel, and Leo
were missing in action. He still had to save Nico di Angelo, assuming the guy
wasn't already dead. And there was that little matter of the giants destroying
Rome, waking Gaea, and taking over the world.
Seriously, these monsters and gods were thousands of years old. Couldn't
they take a few decades off and let Percy live his life? Apparently not.
Percy took the lead as they crawled down the drainage pipe. After thirty feet,
it opened into a wider tunnel. To their left, somewhere in the distance, Percy
heard rumbling and creaking, like a huge machine needed oiling. He had
absolutely no desire to find out what was making that sound, so he figured that
must be the way to go.
Several hundred feet later, they reached a turn in the tunnel. Percy held up his

hand, signaling Jason and Piper to wait. He peeked around the corner.
The corridor opened into a vast room with twenty-foot ceilings and rows of
support columns. It looked like the same parking-garage-type area Percy had
seen in his dreams, but now much more crowded with stuff.
The creaking and rumbling came from huge gears and pulley systems that
raised and lowered sections of the floor for no apparent reason. Water flowed
through open trenches (oh, great, more water), powering waterwheels that turned
some of the machines. Other machines were connected to huge hamster wheels
with hellhounds inside. Percy couldn't help thinking of Mrs. O'Leary, and how
much she would hate being trapped inside one of those.
Suspended from the ceiling were cages of live animals-a lion, several
zebras, a whole pack of hyenas, and even an eight-headed hydra. Ancientlooking bronze and leather conveyor belts trundled along with stacks of weapons
and armor, sort of like the Amazons' warehouse in Seattle, except this place was
obviously much older and not as well organized.
Leo would love it, Percy thought. The whole room was like one massive,
scary, unreliable machine.
"What is it?" Piper whispered.
Percy wasn't even sure how to answer. He didn't see the giants, so he
gestured for his friends to come forward and take a look.
About twenty feet inside the doorway, a life-size wooden cutout of a gladiator
popped up from the floor. It clicked and whirred along a conveyor belt, got
hooked on a rope, and ascended through a slot in the roof.
Jason murmured, "What the heck?"
They stepped inside. Percy scanned the room. There were several thousand
things to look at, most of them in motion, but one good aspect of being an
ADHD demigod was that Percy was comfortable with chaos. About a hundred
yards away, he spotted a raised dais with two empty oversized praetor chairs.
Standing between them was a bronze jar big enough to hold a person.
"Look." He pointed it out to his friends.
Piper frowned. "That's too easy."
"Of course," Percy said.

"But we have no choice," Jason said. "We've got to save Nico."
"Yeah." Percy started across the room, picking his way around conveyor belts
and moving platforms.
The hellhounds in the hamster wheels paid them no attention. They were too
busy running and panting, their red eyes glowing like headlights. The animals in
the other cages gave them bored looks, as if to say, I'd kill you, but it would take
too much energy.
Percy tried to watch out for traps, but everything here looked like a trap. He
remembered how many times he'd almost died in the labyrinth a few years ago.
He really wished Hazel were here so she could help with her underground skills
(and of course so she could be reunited with her brother).
They jumped over a water trench and ducked under a row of caged wolves.
They had made it about halfway to the bronze jar when the ceiling opened over
them. A platform lowered. Standing on it like an actor, with one hand raised and
his head high, was the purple-haired giant Ephialtes.
Just like Percy had seen in his dreams, the Big F was small by giant standards
-about twelve feet tall-but he had tried to make up for it with his loud outfit.
He'd changed out of the gladiator armor and was now wearing a Hawaiian shirt
that even Dionysus would've found vulgar. It had a garish print made up of
dying heroes, horrible tortures, and lions eating slaves in the Colosseum. The
giant's hair was braided with gold and silver coins. He had a ten-foot spear
strapped to his back, which wasn't a good fashion statement with the shirt. He
wore bright white jeans and leather sandals on his_well, not feet, but curved
snakeheads. The snakes flicked their tongues and writhed as if they didn't
appreciate holding up the weight of a giant.
Ephialtes smiled at the demigods like he was really, really pleased to see
them.
"At last!" he bellowed. "So very happy! Honestly, I didn't think you'd make
it past the nymphs, but it's so much better that you did. Much more entertaining.
You're just in time for the main event!"
Jason and Piper closed ranks on either side of Percy. Having them there made
him feel a little better. This giant was smaller than a lot of monsters he had

faced, but something about him made Percy's skin crawl. Ephialtes's eyes
danced with a crazy light.
"We're here," Percy said, which sounded kind of obvious once he had said it.
"Let our friend go."
"Of course!" Ephialtes said. "Though I fear he's a bit past his expiration date.
Otis, where are you?"
A stone's throw away, the floor opened, and the other giant rose on a
platform.
"Otis, finally!" his brother cried with glee. "You're not dressed the same as
me! You're_" Ephialtes's expression turned to horror. "What are you
wearing?"
Otis looked like the world's largest, grumpiest ballet dancer. He wore a skintight baby-blue leotard that Percy really wished left more to the imagination.
The toes of his massive dancing slippers were cut away so that his snakes could
protrude. A diamond tiara (Percy decided to be generous and think of it as a
king's crown) was nestled in his green, firecracker-braided hair. He looked glum
and miserably uncomfortable, but he managed a dancer's bow, which couldn't
have been easy with snake feet and a huge spear on his back.
"Gods and Titans!" Ephialtes yelled. "It's showtime! What are you thinking?"
"I didn't want to wear the gladiator outfit," Otis complained. "I still think a
ballet would be perfect, you know, while Armageddon is going on." He raised
his eyebrows hopefully at the demigods. "I have some extra costumes-"
"No!" Ephialtes snapped, and for once Percy was in agreement.
The purple-haired giant faced Percy. He grinned so painfully, he looked like
he was being electrocuted.
"Please excuse my brother," he said. "His stage presence is awful, and he has
no sense of style."
"Okay." Percy decided not to comment on the Hawaiian shirt. "Now, about
our friend_"
"Oh, him," Ephialtes sneered. "We were going to let him finish dying in
public, but he has no entertainment value. He's spent days curled up sleeping.
What sort of spectacle is that? Otis, tip over the jar."

Otis trudged over to the dais, stopping occasionally to do a plie. He knocked
over the jar, the lid popped off, and Nico di Angelo spilled out. The sight of his
deathly pale face and too-skinny frame made Percy's heart stop. Percy couldn't
tell whether he was alive or dead. He wanted to rush over and check, but
Ephialtes stood in his way.
"Now we have to hurry," said the Big F. "We should go through your stage
directions. The hypogeum is all set!"
Percy was ready to slice this giant in half and get out of there, but Otis was
standing over Nico. If a battle started, Nico was in no condition to defend
himself. Percy needed to buy him some recovery time.
Jason raised his gold gladius. "We're not going to be part of any show," he
said. "And what's a hypo-whatever-you-call-it?"
"Hypogeum!" Ephialtes said. "You're a Roman demigod, aren't you? You
should know! Ah, but I suppose if we do our job right down here in the
underworks, you really wouldn't know the hypogeum exists."
"I know that word," Piper said. "It's the area under a coliseum. It housed all
the set pieces and machinery used to create special effects."
Ephialtes clapped enthusiastically. "Exactly so! Are you a student of the
theater, my girl?"
"Uh_my dad's an actor."
"Wonderful!" Ephialtes turned toward his brother. "Did you hear that, Otis?"
"Actor," Otis murmured. "Everybody's an actor. No one can dance."
"Be nice!" Ephialtes scolded. "At any rate, my girl, you're absolutely right,
but this hypogeum is much more than the stageworks for a coliseum. You've
heard that in the old days some giants were imprisoned under the earth, and from
time to time they would cause earthquakes when they tried to break free? Well,
we've done much better! Otis and I have been imprisoned under Rome for eons,
but we've kept busy building our very own hypogeum. Now we're ready to
create the greatest spectacle Rome has ever seen-and the last!"
At Otis's feet, Nico shuddered. Percy felt like a hellhound hamster wheel
somewhere in his chest had started moving again. At least Nico was alive. Now
they just had to defeat the giants, preferably without destroying the city of

Rome, and get out of here to find their friends.
"So!" Percy said, hoping to keep the giants' attention on him. "Stage
directions, you said?"
"Yes!" Ephialtes said. "Now, I know the bounty stipulates that you and the
girl Annabeth should be kept alive if possible, but honestly, the girl is already
doomed, so I hope you don't mind if we deviate from the plan."
Percy's mouth tasted like bad nymph water. "Already doomed. You don't
mean she's-"
"Dead?" the giant asked. "No. Not yet. But don't worry! We've got your
other friends locked up, you see."
Piper made a strangled sound. "Leo? Hazel and Frank?"
"Those are the ones," Ephialtes agreed. "So we can use them for the sacrifice.
We can let the Athena girl die, which will please Her Ladyship. And we can use
you three for the show! Gaea will be a bit disappointed, but really, this is a winwin. Your deaths will be much more entertaining."
Jason snarled. "You want entertaining? I'll give you entertaining."
Piper stepped forward. Somehow she managed a sweet smile. "I've got a
better idea," she told the giants. "Why don't you let us go? That would be an
incredible twist. Wonderful entertainment value, and it would prove to the world
how cool you are."
Nico stirred. Otis looked down at him. His snaky feet flicked their tongues at
Nico's head.
"Plus!" Piper said quickly. "Plus, we could do some dance moves as we're
escaping. Perhaps a ballet number!"
Otis forgot all about Nico. He lumbered over and wagged his finger at
Ephialtes. "You see? That's what I was telling you! It would be incredible!"
For a second, Percy thought Piper was going to pull it off. Otis looked at his
brother imploringly. Ephialtes tugged at his chin as if considering the idea.
At last he shook his head. "No_no, I'm afraid not. You see, my girl, I am the
anti-Dionysus. I have a reputation to uphold. Dionysus thinks he knows parties?
He's wrong! His revels are tame compared to what I can do. That old stunt we
pulled, for instance, when we piled up mountains to reach Olympus-"

"I told you that would never work," Otis muttered.
"And the time my brother covered himself with meat and ran through an
obstacle course of drakons-"
"You said Hephaestus-TV would show it during prime time," Otis said. "No
one even saw me."
"Well, this spectacle will be even better," Ephialtes promised. "The Romans
always wanted bread and circuses-food and entertainment! As we destroy their
city, I will offer them both. Behold, a sample!"
Something dropped from the ceiling and landed at Percy's feet: a loaf of
sandwich bread in a white plastic wrapper with red and yellow dots.
Percy picked it up. "Wonder bread?"
"Magnificent, isn't it?" Ephialtes's eyes danced with crazy excitement. "You
can keep that loaf. I plan on distributing millions to the people of Rome as I
obliterate them."
"Wonder bread is good," Otis admitted. "Though the Romans should dance
for it."
Percy glanced over at Nico, who was just starting to move. Percy wanted him
to be at least conscious enough to crawl out of the way when the fighting started.
And Percy needed more information from the giants about Annabeth, and where
his other friends were being kept.
"Maybe," Percy ventured, "you should bring our other friends here. You
know, spectacular deaths_the more the merrier, right?"
"Hmm." Ephialtes fiddled with a button on his Hawaiian shirt. "No. It's
really too late to change the choreography. But never fear. The circuses will be
marvelous! Ah_not the modern sort of circus, mind you. That would require
clowns, and I hate clowns."
"Everyone hates clowns," Otis said. "Even other clowns hate clowns."
"Exactly," his brother agreed. "But we have much better entertainment
planned! The three of you will die in agony, up above, where all the gods and
mortals can watch. But that's just the opening ceremony! In the old days, games
went on for days or weeks. Our spectacle-the destruction of Rome-will go on
for one full month until Gaea awakens."

"Wait," Jason said. "One month, and Gaea wakes up?"
Ephialtes waved away the question. "Yes, yes. Something about August First
being the best date to destroy all humanity. Not important! In her infinite
wisdom, the Earth Mother has agreed that Rome can be destroyed first, slowly
and spectacularly. It's only fitting!"
"So_" Percy couldn't believe he was talking about the end of the world with
a loaf of Wonder bread in his hand. "You're Gaea's warm-up act."
Ephialtes's face darkened. "This is no warm-up, demigod! We'll release wild
animals and monsters into the streets. Our special effects department will
produce fires and earthquakes. Sinkholes and volcanoes will appear randomly
out of nowhere! Ghosts will run rampant."
"The ghost thing won't work," Otis said. "Our focus groups say it won't pull
ratings."
"Doubters!" Ephialtes said. "This hypogeum can make anything work!"
Ephialtes stormed over to a big table covered with a sheet. He pulled the
sheet away, revealing a collection of levers and knobs almost as complicatedlooking as Leo's control panel on the Argo II.
"This button?" Ephialtes said. "This one will eject a dozen rabid wolves into
the Forum. And this one will summon automaton gladiators to battle tourists at
the Trevi Fountain. This one will cause the Tiber to flood its banks so we can
reenact a naval battle right in the Piazza Navona! Percy Jackson, you should
appreciate that, as a son of Poseidon!"
"Uh_I still think the letting us go idea is better," Percy said.
"He's right," Piper tried again. "Otherwise we get into this whole
confrontation thing. We fight you. You fight us. We wreck your plans. You
know, we've defeated a lot of giants lately. I'd hate for things to get out of
control."
Ephialtes nodded thoughtfully. "You're right."
Piper blinked. "I am?"
"We can't let things get out of control," the giant agreed. "Everything has to
be timed perfectly. But don't worry. I've choreographed your deaths. You'll love
it."

Nico started to crawl away, groaning. Percy wanted him to move faster and to
groan less. He considered throwing his Wonder bread at him.
Jason switched his sword hand. "And if we refuse to cooperate with your
spectacle?"
"Well, you can't kill us." Ephialtes laughed, as if the idea was ridiculous.
"You have no gods with you, and that's the only way you could hope to triumph.
So really, it would be much more sensible to die painfully. Sorry, but the show
must go on."
This giant was even worse than that sea god Phorcys back in Atlanta, Percy
realized. Ephialtes wasn't so much the anti-Dionysus. He was Dionysus gone
crazy on steroids. Sure, Dionysus was the god of revelry and out-of-control
parties. But Ephialtes was all about riot and ruin for pleasure.
Percy looked at his friends. "I'm getting tired of this guy's shirt."
"Combat time?" Piper grabbed her horn of plenty.
"I hate Wonder bread," Jason said.
Together, they charged.

THINGS WENT WRONG IMMEDIATELY.The giants vanished in twin puffs of smoke.
They reappeared halfway across the room, each in a different spot. Percy
sprinted toward Ephialtes, but slots in the floor opened under his feet, and metal
walls shot up on either side, separating him from his friends.
The walls started closing in on him like the sides of a vise grip. Percy jumped
up and grabbed the bottom of the hydra's cage. He caught a brief glimpse of
Piper leaping across a hopscotch pattern of fiery pits, making her way toward
Nico, who was dazed and weaponless and being stalked by a pair of leopards.
Meanwhile Jason charged at Otis, who pulled his spear and heaved a great
sigh, as if he would much rather dance Swan Lake than kill another demigod.
Percy registered all this in a split second, but there wasn't much he could do
about it. The hydra snapped at his hands. He swung and dropped, landing in a
grove of painted plywood trees that sprang up from nowhere. The trees changed
positions as he tried to run through them, so he slashed down the whole forest
with Riptide.
"Wonderful!" Ephialtes cried. He stood at his control panel about sixty feet to
Percy's left. "We'll consider this a dress rehearsal. Shall I unleash the hydra onto
the Spanish Steps now?"

He pulled a lever, and Percy glanced behind him. The cage he had just been
hanging from was now rising toward a hatch in the ceiling. In three seconds it
would be gone. If Percy attacked the giant, the hydra would ravage the city.
Cursing, he threw Riptide like a boomerang. The sword wasn't designed for
that, but the Celestial bronze blade sliced through the chains suspending the
hydra. The cage tumbled sideways. The door broke open, and the monster
spilled out-right in front of Percy.
"Oh, you are a spoilsport, Jackson!" Ephialtes called. "Very well. Battle it
here, if you must, but your death won't be nearly as good without the cheering
crowds."
Percy stepped forward to confront the monster-then realized he'd just
thrown his weapon away. A bit of bad planning on his part.
He rolled to one side as all eight hydra heads spit acid, turning the floor
where he'd been standing into a steaming crater of melted stone. Percy really
hated hydras. It was almost a good thing that he'd lost his sword, since his gut
instinct would've been to slash at the heads, and a hydra simply grew two new
ones for each one it lost.
The last time he'd faced a hydra, he'd been saved by a battleship with bronze
cannons that blasted the monster to pieces. That strategy couldn't help him
now_or could it?
The hydra lashed out. Percy ducked behind a giant hamster wheel and
scanned the room, looking for the boxes he'd seen in his dream. He remembered
something about rocket launchers.
At the dais, Piper stood guard over Nico as the leopards advanced. She aimed
her cornucopia and shot a pot roast over the cats' heads. It must have smelled
pretty good, because the leopards raced after it.
About eighty feet to Piper's right, Jason battled Otis, sword against spear.
Otis had lost his diamond tiara and looked angry about it. He probably could
have impaled Jason several times, but the giant insisted on doing a pirouette with
every attack, which slowed him down.
Meanwhile Ephialtes laughed as he pushed buttons on his control board,
cranking the conveyor belts into high gear and opening random animal cages.

The hydra charged around the hamster wheel. Percy swung behind a column,
grabbed a garbage bag full of Wonder bread, and threw it at the monster. The
hydra spit acid, which was a mistake. The bag and wrappers dissolved in midair.
The Wonder bread absorbed the acid like fire extinguisher foam and splattered
against the hydra, covering it in a sticky, steaming layer of high-calorie
poisonous goo.
As the monster reeled, shaking its heads and blinking Wonder acid out of its
eyes, Percy looked around desperately. He didn't see the rocket-launcher boxes,
but tucked against the back wall was a strange contraption like an artist's easel,
fitted with rows of missile launchers. Percy spotted a bazooka, a grenade
launcher, a giant Roman candle, and a dozen other wicked-looking weapons.
They all seemed to be wired together, pointing in the same direction and
connected to a single bronze lever on the side. At the top of the easel, spelled in
carnations, were the words: HAPPY DESTRUCTION, ROME!
Percy bolted toward the device. The hydra hissed and charged after him.
"I know!" Ephialtes cried out happily. "We can start with explosions along
the Via Labicana! We can't keep our audience waiting forever."
Percy scrambled behind the easel and turned it toward Ephialtes. He didn't
have Leo's skill with machines, but he knew how to aim a weapon.
The hydra barreled toward him, blocking his view of the giant. Percy hoped
this contraption would have enough firepower to take down two targets at once.
He tugged at the lever. It didn't budge.
All eight hydra heads loomed over him, ready to melt him into a pool of
sludge. He tugged the lever again. This time the easel shook and the weapons
began to hiss.
"Duck and cover!" Percy yelled, hoping his friends got the message.
Percy leaped to one side as the easel fired. The sound was like a fiesta in the
middle of an exploding gunpowder factory. The hydra vaporized instantly.
Unfortunately, the recoil knocked the easel sideways and sent more projectiles
shooting all over the room. A chunk of ceiling collapsed and crushed a
waterwheel. More cages snapped off their chains, unleashing two zebras and a
pack of hyenas. A grenade exploded over Ephialtes's head, but it only blasted

him off his feet. The control board didn't even look damaged.
Across the room, sandbags rained down around Piper and Nico. Piper tried to
pull Nico to safety, but one of the bags caught her shoulder and knocked her
down.
"Piper!" Jason cried. He ran toward her, completely forgetting about Otis,
who aimed his spear at Jason's back.
"Look out!" Percy yelled.
Jason had fast reflexes. As Otis threw, Jason rolled. The point sailed over him
and Jason flicked his hand, summoning a gust of wind that changed the spear's
direction. It flew across the room and skewered Ephialtes through his side just as
he was getting to his feet.
"Otis!" Ephialtes stumbled away from his control board, clutching the spear
as he began to crumble into monster dust. "Will you please stop killing me!"
"Not my fault!"
Otis had barely finished speaking when Percy's missile-launching contraption
spit out one last sphere of Roman candle fire. The fiery pink ball of death
(naturally it had to be pink) hit the ceiling above Otis and exploded in a beautiful
shower of light. Colorful sparks pirouetted gracefully around the giant. Then a
ten-foot section of roof collapsed and crushed him flat.
Jason ran to Piper's side. She yelped when he touched her arm. Her shoulder
looked unnaturally bent, but she muttered, "Fine. I'm fine." Next to her, Nico sat
up, looking around him in bewilderment as if just realizing he'd missed a battle.
Sadly, the giants weren't finished. Ephialtes was already re-forming, his head
and shoulders rising from the mound of dust. He tugged his arms free and
glowered at Percy.
Across the room, the pile of rubble shifted, and Otis busted out. His head was
slightly caved in. All the firecrackers in his hair had popped, and his braids were
smoking. His leotard was in tatters, which was just about the only way it
could've looked less attractive on him.
"Percy!" Jason shouted. "The controls!"
Percy unfroze. He found Riptide in his pocket again, uncapped his sword, and
lunged for the switchboard. He slashed his blade across the top, decapitating the

controls in a shower of bronze sparks.
"No!" Ephialtes wailed. "You've ruined the spectacle!"
Percy turned too slowly. Ephialtes swung his spear like a bat and smacked
him across the chest. He fell to his knees, the pain turning his stomach to lava.
Jason ran to his side, but Otis lumbered after him. Percy managed to rise and
found himself shoulder to shoulder with Jason. Over by the dais, Piper was still
on the floor, unable to get up. Nico was barely conscious.
The giants were healing, getting stronger by the minute. Percy was not.
Ephialtes smiled apologetically. "Tired, Percy Jackson? As I said, you cannot
kill us. So I guess we're at an impasse. Oh, wait_no we're not! Because we can
kill you!"
"That," Otis grumbled, picking up his fallen spear, "is the first thing sensible
thing you've said all day, brother."
The giants pointed their weapons, ready to turn Percy and Jason into a
demigod-kabob.
"We won't give up," Jason growled. "We'll cut you into pieces like Jupiter
did to Saturn."
"That's right," Percy said. "You're both dead. I don't care if we have a god
on our side or not."
"Well, that's a shame," said a new voice.
To his right, another platform lowered from the ceiling. Leaning casually on a
pinecone-topped staff was a man in a purple camp shirt, khaki shorts, and
sandals with white socks. He raised his broad-brimmed hat, and purple fire
flickered in his eyes. "I'd hate to think I made a special trip for nothing."

PERCY HAD NEVER THOUGHT OF MR. D as a calming influence, but suddenly
everything got quiet. The machines ground to a halt. The wild animals stopped
growling.
The two leopards paced over-still licking their lips from Piper's pot roast-
and butted their heads affectionately against the god's legs. Mr. D scratched their
ears.
"Really, Ephialtes," he chided. "Killing demigods is one thing. But using
leopards for your spectacle? That's over the line."
The giant made a squeaking sound. "This-this is impossible. D-D-"
"It's Bacchus, actually, my old friend," said the god. "And of course it's
possible. Someone told me there was a party going on."
He looked the same as he had in Kansas, but Percy still couldn't get over the
differences between Bacchus and his old not-so-much-of-a-friend Mr. D.
Bacchus was meaner and leaner, with less of a potbelly. He had longer hair,
more spring in his step, and a lot more anger in his eyes. He even managed to
make a pinecone on a stick look intimidating.
Ephialtes's spear quivered. "You-you gods are doomed! Be gone, in the

name of Gaea!"
"Hmm." Bacchus sounded unimpressed. He strolled through the ruined props,
platforms, and special effects.
"Tacky." He waved his hand at a painted wooden gladiator, then turned to a
machine that looked like an oversized rolling pin studded with knives. "Cheap.
Boring. And this_" He inspected the rocket-launching contraption, which was
still smoking. "Tacky, cheap, and boring. Honestly, Ephialtes. You have no
sense of style."
"STYLE?" The giant's face flushed. "I have mountains of style. I define
style. I-I-"
"My brother oozes style," Otis suggested.
"Thank you!" Ephialtes cried.
Bacchus stepped forward, and the giants stumbled back. "Have you two
gotten shorter?" asked the god.
"Oh, that's low," Ephialtes growled. "I'm quite tall enough to destroy you,
Bacchus! You gods, always hiding behind your mortal heroes, trusting the fate
of Olympus to the likes of these."
He sneered at Percy.
Jason hefted his sword. "Lord Bacchus, are we going to kill these giants or
what?"
"Well, I certainly hope so," Bacchus said. "Please, carry on."
Percy stared at him. "Didn't you come here to help?"
Bacchus shrugged. "Oh, I appreciated the sacrifice at sea. A whole ship full
of Diet Coke. Very nice. Although I would've preferred Diet Pepsi."
"And six million in gold and jewels," Percy muttered.
"Yes," Bacchus said, "although with demigod parties of five or more the
gratuity is included, so that wasn't necessary."
"What?"
"Never mind," Bacchus said. "At any rate, you got my attention. I'm here.
Now I need to see if you're worthy of my help. Go ahead. Battle. If I'm
impressed, I'll jump in for the grand finale."
"We speared one," Percy said. "Dropped the roof on the other. What do you

consider impressive?"
"Ah, a good question_" Bacchus tapped his thyrsus. Then he smiled in a
way that made Percy think, Uh-oh. "Perhaps you need inspiration! The stage
hasn't been properly set. You call this a spectacle, Ephialtes? Let me show you
how it's done."
The god dissolved into purple mist. Piper and Nico disappeared.
"Pipes!" Jason yelled. "Bacchus, where did you-?"
The entire floor rumbled and began to rise. The ceiling opened in a series of
panels. Sunlight poured in. The air shimmered like a mirage, and Percy heard the
roar of a crowd above him.
The hypogeum ascended through a forest of weathered stone columns, into
the middle of a ruined coliseum.
Percy's heart did a somersault. This wasn't just any coliseum. It was the
Colosseum. The giants' special effects machines had gone into overtime, laying
planks across ruined support beams so the arena had a proper floor again. The
bleachers repaired themselves until they were gleaming white. A giant red-andgold canopy extended overhead to provide shade from the afternoon sun. The
emperor's box was draped with silk, flanked by banners and golden eagles. The
roar of applause came from thousands of shimmering purple ghosts, the Lares of
Rome brought back for an encore performance.
Vents opened in the floor and sprayed sand across the arena. Huge props
sprang up-garage-size mountains of plaster, stone columns, and (for some
reason) life-size plastic barnyard animals. A small lake appeared to one side.
Ditches crisscrossed the arena floor in case anyone was in the mood for trench
warfare. Percy and Jason stood together facing the twin giants.
"This is a proper show!" boomed the voice of Bacchus. He sat in the
emperor's box wearing purple robes and golden laurels. At his left sat Nico and
Piper, her shoulder being tended by a nymph in a nurse's uniform. At Bacchus's
right crouched a satyr, offering up Doritos and grapes. The god raised a can of
Diet Pepsi and the crowd went respectfully quiet.
Percy glared up at him. "You're just going to sit there?"
"The demigod is right!" Ephialtes bellowed. "Fight us yourself, coward! Um,

without the demigods."
Bacchus smiled lazily. "Juno says she's assembled a worthy crew of
demigods. Show me. Entertain me, heroes of Olympus. Give me a reason to do
more. Being a god has its privileges."
He popped his soda can top, and the crowd cheered.

PERCY HAD FOUGHT MANY BATTLES. He'd even fought in a couple of arenas, but
nothing like this. In the huge Colosseum, with thousands of cheering ghosts, the
god Bacchus staring down at him, and the two twelve-foot giants looming over
him, Percy felt as small and insignificant as a bug. He also felt very angry.
Fighting giants was one thing. Bacchus making it into a game was something
else.
Percy remembered what Luke Castellan had told him years ago, when Percy
had come back from his very first quest: Didn't you realize how useless it all is?
All the heroics-being pawns of the Olympians?
Percy was almost the same age now as Luke had been then. He could
understand how Luke became so spiteful. In the past five years, Percy had been a
pawn too many times. The Olympians seemed to take turns using him for their
schemes.
Maybe the gods were better than the Titans, or the giants, or Gaea, but that
didn't make them good or wise. It didn't make Percy like this stupid arena battle.
Unfortunately, he didn't have much choice. If he was going to save his
friends, he had to beat these giants. He had to survive and find Annabeth.

Ephialtes and Otis made his decision easier by attacking. Together, the giants
picked up a fake mountain as big as Percy's New York apartment and hurled it
at the demigods.
Percy and Jason bolted. They dove together into the nearest trench and the
mountain shattered above them, spraying them with plaster shrapnel. It wasn't
deadly, but it stung like crazy.
The crowd jeered and shouted for blood. "Fight! Fight!"
"I'll take Otis again?" Jason called over the noise. "Or do you want him this
time?"
Percy tried to think. Dividing was the natural course-fighting the giants oneon-one, but that hadn't worked so well last time. It dawned on him that they
needed a different strategy.
This whole trip, Percy had felt responsible for leading and protecting his
friends. He was sure Jason felt the same way. They'd worked in small groups,
hoping that would be safer. They'd fought as individuals, each demigod doing
what he or she did best. But Hera had made them a team of seven for a reason.
The few times Percy and Jason had worked together-summoning the storm at
Fort Sumter, helping the Argo II escape the Pillars of Hercules, even filling the
nymphaeum-Percy had felt more confident, better able to figure out problems,
as if he'd been a Cyclops his whole life and suddenly woke up with two eyes.
"We attack together," he said. "Otis first, because he's weaker. Take him out
quickly and move to Ephialtes. Bronze and gold together-maybe that'll keep
them from re-forming a little longer."
Jason smiled dryly, like he'd just found out he would die in an embarrassing
way.
"Why not?" he agreed. "But Ephialtes isn't going to stand there and wait
while we kill his brother. Unless-"
"Good wind today," Percy offered. "And there're some water pipes running
under the arena."
Jason understood immediately. He laughed, and Percy felt a spark of
friendship. This guy thought the same way he did about a lot of things.
"On three?" Jason said.

"Why wait?"
They charged out of the trench. As Percy suspected, the twins had lifted
another plaster mountain and were waiting for a clear shot. The giants raised it
above their heads, preparing to throw, and Percy caused a water pipe to burst at
their feet, shaking the floor. Jason sent a blast of wind against Ephialtes's chest.
The purple-haired giant toppled backward and Otis lost his grip on the mountain,
which promptly collapsed on top of his brother. Only Ephialtes's snake feet
stuck out, darting their heads around, as if wondering where the rest of their
body had gone.
The crowd roared with approval, but Percy suspected Ephialtes was only
stunned. They had a few seconds at best.
"Hey, Otis!" he shouted. "The Nutcracker bites!"
"Ahhhhh!" Otis snatched up his spear and threw, but he was too angry to aim
straight. Jason deflected it over Percy's head and into the lake.
The demigods backed toward the water, shouting insults about ballet-which
was kind of a challenge, as Percy didn't know much about it.
Otis barreled toward them empty-handed, before apparently realizing that a)
he was empty-handed, and b) charging toward a large body of water to fight a
son of Poseidon was maybe not a good idea.
Too late, he tried to stop. The demigods rolled to either side, and Jason
summoned the wind, using the giant's own momentum to shove him into the
water. As Otis struggled to rise, Percy and Jason attacked as one. They launched
themselves at the giant and brought their blades down on Otis's head.
The poor guy didn't even have a chance to pirouette. He exploded into
powder on the lake's surface like a huge packet of drink mix.
Percy churned the lake into a whirlpool. Otis's essence tried to re-form, but as
his head appeared from the water, Jason called lightning and blasted him to dust
again.
So far so good, but they couldn't keep Otis down forever. Percy was already
tired from his fight underground. His gut still ached from getting smacked with a
spear shaft. He could feel his strength waning, and they still had another giant to
deal with.

As if on cue, the plaster mountain exploded behind them. Ephialtes rose,
bellowing with anger.
Percy and Jason waited as he lumbered toward them, his spear in hand.
Apparently, getting flattened under a plaster mountain had only energized him.
His eyes danced with murderous light. The afternoon sun glinted in his coinbraided hair. Even his snake feet looked angry, baring their fangs and hissing.
Jason called down another lightning strike, but Ephialtes caught it on his
spear and deflected the blast, melting a life-size plastic cow. He slammed a stone
column out of his way like a stack of building blocks.
Percy tried to keep the lake churning. He didn't want Otis rising to join this
fight, but as Ephialtes closed the last few feet, Percy had to switch focus.
Jason and he met the giant's charge. They lunged around Ephialtes, stabbing
and slashing in a blur of gold and bronze, but the giant parried every strike.
"I will not yield!" Ephialtes roared. "You may have ruined my spectacle, but
Gaea will still destroy your world!"
Percy lashed out, slicing the giant's spear in half. Ephialtes wasn't even
fazed. The giant swept low with the blunt end and knocked Percy off his feet.
Percy landed hard on his sword arm, and Riptide clattered out of his grip.
Jason tried to take advantage. He stepped inside the giant's guard and stabbed
at his chest, but somehow Ephialtes parried the strike. He sliced the tip of his
spear down Jason's chest, ripping his purple shirt into a vest. Jason stumbled,
looking at the thin line of blood down his sternum. Ephialtes kicked him
backward.
Up in the emperor's box, Piper cried out, but her voice was drowned in the
roar of the crowd. Bacchus looked on with an amused smile, munching from a
bag of Doritos.
Ephialtes towered over Percy and Jason, both halves of his broken spear
poised over their heads. Percy's sword arm was numb. Jason's gladius had
skittered across the arena floor. Their plan had failed.
Percy glanced up at Bacchus, deciding what final curse he would hurl at the
useless wine god, when he saw a shape in the sky above the Colosseum-a large
dark oval descending rapidly.

From the lake, Otis yelled, trying to warn his brother, but his half-dissolved
face could only manage: "Uh-umh-moooo!"
"Don't worry, brother!" Ephialtes said, his eyes still fixed on the demigods.
"I will make them suffer!"
The Argo II turned in the sky, presenting its port side, and green fire blazed
from the ballista.
"Actually," Percy said. "Look behind you."
He and Jason rolled away as Ephialtes turned and bellowed in disbelief.
Percy dropped into a trench just as the explosion rocked the Colosseum.
When he climbed out again, the Argo II was coming in for a landing. Jason
poked his head out from behind his improvised bomb shelter of a plastic horse.
Ephialtes lay charred and groaning on the arena floor, the sand around him
seared into a halo of glass by the heat of the Greek fire. Otis was floundering in
the lake, trying to re-form, but from the arms down he looked like a puddle of
burnt oatmeal.
Percy staggered over to Jason and clapped him on the shoulder. The ghostly
crowd gave them a standing ovation as the Argo II extended its landing gear and
settled on the arena floor. Leo stood at the helm, Hazel and Frank grinning at his
side. Coach Hedge danced around the firing platform, pumping his fist in the air
and yelling, "That's what I'm talking about!"
Percy turned to the emperor's box. "Well?" he yelled at Bacchus. "Was that
entertaining enough for you, you wine-breathed little-"
"No need for that." Suddenly the god was standing right next to him in the
arena. He brushed Dorito dust off his purple robes. "I have decided you are
worthy partners for this combat."
"Partners?" Jason growled. "You did nothing!"
Bacchus walked to the edge of the lake. The water instantly drained, leaving
an Otis-headed pile of mush. Bacchus picked his way to the bottom and looked
up at the crowd. He raised his thyrsus.
The crowd jeered and hollered and pointed their thumbs down. Percy had
never been sure whether that meant live or die. He'd heard it both ways.
Bacchus chose the more entertaining option. He smacked Otis's head with his

pinecone staff, and the giant pile of Otismeal disintegrated completely.
The crowd went wild. Bacchus climbed out of the lake and strutted over to
Ephialtes, who was still lying spread-eagled, overcooked and smoking.
Again, Bacchus raised his thyrsus.
"DO IT!" the crowd roared.
"DON'T DO IT!" Ephialtes wailed.
Bacchus tapped the giant on the nose, and Ephialtes crumbled to ashes.
The ghosts cheered and threw spectral confetti as Bacchus strode around the
stadium with his arms raised triumphantly, exulting in the worship. He grinned
at the demigods. "That, my friends, is a show! And of course I did something. I
killed two giants!"
As Percy's friends disembarked from the ship, the crowd of ghosts
shimmered and disappeared. Piper and Nico struggled down from the emperor's
box as the Colosseum's magical renovations began to turn into mist. The arena
floor remained solid, but otherwise the stadium looked as if it hadn't hosted a
good giant killing for eons.
"Well," Bacchus said. "That was fun. You have my permission to continue
your voyage."
"Your permission?" Percy snarled.
"Yes." Bacchus raised an eyebrow. "Although your voyage may be a little
harder than you expect, son of Neptune."
"Poseidon," Percy corrected him automatically. "What do you mean about my
voyage?"
"You might try the parking lot behind the Emmanuel Building," Bacchus
said. "Best place to break through. Now, good-bye, my friends. And, ah, good
luck with that other little matter."
The god vaporized in a cloud of mist that smelled faintly of grape juice. Jason
ran to meet Piper and Nico.
Coach Hedge trotted up to Percy, with Hazel, Frank, and Leo close behind.
"Was that Dionysus?" Hedge asked. "I love that guy!"
"You're alive!" Percy said to the others. "The giants said you were captured.
What happened?"

Leo shrugged. "Oh, just another brilliant plan by Leo Valdez. You'd be
amazed what you can do with an Archimedes sphere, a girl who can sense stuff
underground, and a weasel."
"I was the weasel," Frank said glumly.
"Basically," Leo explained, "I activated a hydraulic screw with the
Archimedes device-which is going to be awesome once I install it in the ship,
by the way. Hazel sensed the easiest path to drill to the surface. We made a
tunnel big enough for a weasel, and Frank climbed up with a simple transmitter
that I slapped together. After that, it was just a matter of hacking into Coach
Hedge's favorite satellite channels and telling him to bring the ship around to
rescue us. After he got us, finding you was easy, thanks to that godly light show
at the Colosseum."
Percy understood about ten percent of Leo's story, but he decided it was
enough since he had a more pressing question. "Where's Annabeth?"
Leo winced. "Yeah, about that_she's still in trouble, we think. Hurt, broken
leg, maybe-at least according to this vision Gaea shown us. Rescuing her is our
next stop."
Two seconds before, Percy had been ready to collapse. Now another surge of
adrenaline coursed through his body. He wanted to strangle Leo and demand
why the Argo II hadn't sailed off to rescue Annabeth first, but he thought that
might sound a little ungrateful.
"Tell me about the vision," he said. "Tell me everything."
The floor shook. The wooden planks began to disappear, spilling sand into
the pits of the hypogeum below.
"Let's talk on board," Hazel suggested. "We'd better take off while we still
can."
They sailed out of the Colosseum and veered south over the rooftops of Rome.
All around the Piazza del Colosseo, traffic had come to a standstill. A crowd
of mortals had gathered, probably wondering about the strange lights and sounds
that had come from the ruins. As far as Percy could see, none of the giants'
spectacular plans for destruction had come off successfully. The city looked the

same as before. No one seemed to notice the huge Greek trireme rising into the
sky.
The demigods gathered around the helm. Jason bandaged Piper's sprained
shoulder while Hazel sat at the stern, feeding Nico ambrosia. The son of Hades
could barely lift his head. His voice was so quiet, Hazel had to lean in whenever
he spoke.
Frank and Leo recounted what had happened in the room with the
Archimedes spheres, and the visions Gaea had shown them in the bronze mirror.
They quickly decided that their best lead for finding Annabeth was the cryptic
advice Bacchus had provided: the Emmanuel Building, whatever that was. Frank
started typing at the helm's computer while Leo tapped furiously at his controls,
muttering, "Emmanuel Building. Emmanuel Building." Coach Hedge tried to
help by wrestling with an upside-down street map of Rome.
Percy knelt next to Jason and Piper. "How's the shoulder?"
Piper smiled. "It'll heal. Both of you did great."
Jason elbowed Percy. "Not a bad team, you and me."
"Better than jousting in a Kansas cornfield," Percy agreed.
"There it is!" Leo cried, pointing to his monitor. "Frank, you're amazing! I'm
setting course."
Frank hunched his shoulders. "I just read the name off the screen. Some
Chinese tourist marked it on Google Maps."
Leo grinned at the others. "He reads Chinese."
"Just a tiny bit," Frank said.
"How cool is that?"
"Guys," Hazel broke in. "I hate to interrupt your admiration session, but you
should hear this."
She helped Nico to his feet. He'd always been pale, but now his skin looked
like powdered milk. His dark sunken eyes reminded Percy of photos he'd seen of
liberated prisoners-of-war, which Percy guessed Nico basically was.
"Thank you," Nico rasped. His eyes darted nervously around the group. "I'd
given up hope."
The past week or so, Percy had imagined a lot of scathing things he might say

to Nico when they met again, but the guy looked so frail and sad, Percy couldn't
muster much anger.
"You knew about the two camps all along," Percy said. "You could have told
me who I was the first day I arrived at Camp Jupiter, but you didn't."
Nico slumped against the helm. "Percy, I'm sorry. I discovered Camp Jupiter
last year. My dad led me there, though I wasn't sure why. He told me the gods
had kept the camps separate for centuries and that I couldn't tell anyone. The
time wasn't right. But he said it would be important for me to know_" He
doubled over in a fit of coughing.
Hazel held his shoulders until he could stand again.
"I-I thought Dad meant because of Hazel," Nico continued. "I'd need a safe
place to take her. But now_I think he wanted me to know about both camps so
I'd understand how important your quest was, and so I'd search for the Doors of
Death."
The air turned electric-literally, as Jason started throwing off sparks.
"Did you find the doors?" Percy asked.
Nico nodded. "I was a fool. I thought I could go anywhere in the Underworld,
but I walked right into Gaea's trap. I might as well have tried running from a
black hole."
"Um_" Frank chewed his lip. "What kind of black hole are you talking
about?"
Nico started to speak, but whatever he needed to say must have been too
terrifying. He turned to Hazel.
She put her hand on her brother's arm. "Nico told me that the Doors of Death
have two sides-one in the mortal world, one in the Underworld. The mortal
side of the portal is in Greece. It's heavily guarded by Gaea's forces. That's
where they brought Nico back into the upper world. Then they transported him
to Rome."
Piper must've been nervous, because her cornucopia spit out a cheeseburger.
"Where exactly in Greece is this doorway?"
Nico took a rattling breath. "The House of Hades. It's an underground temple
in Epirus. I can mark it on a map, but-but the mortal side of the portal isn't the

problem. In the Underworld, the Doors of Death are in_in_"
A cold pair of hands did the itsy-bitsy spider down Percy's back.
A black hole. An inescapable part of the Underworld where even Nico di
Angelo couldn't go. Why hadn't Percy thought of this before? He'd been to the
very edge of that place. He still had nightmares about it.
"Tartarus," he guessed. "The deepest part of the Underworld."
Nico nodded. "They pulled me into the pit, Percy. The things I saw down
there_" His voice broke.
Hazel pursed her lips. "No mortal has ever been to Tartarus," she explained.
"At least, no one has ever gone in and returned alive. It's the maximum-security
prison of Hades, where the old Titans and the other enemies of the gods are
bound. It's where all monsters go when they die on the earth. It's_well, no one
knows exactly what it's like."
Her eyes drifted to her brother. The rest of her thought didn't need to be
spoken: No one except Nico.
Hazel handed him his black sword.
Nico leaned on it like it was an old man's cane. "Now I understand why
Hades hasn't been able to close the doors," he said. "Even the gods don't go into
Tartarus. Even the god of death, Thanatos himself, wouldn't go near that place."
Leo glanced over from the wheel. "So let me guess. We'll have to go there."
Nico shook his head. "It's impossible. I'm the son of Hades, and even I
barely survived. Gaea's forces overwhelmed me instantly. They're so powerful
down there_no demigod would stand a chance. I almost went insane."
Nico's eyes looked like shattered glass. Percy wondered sadly if something
inside him had broken permanently.
"Then we'll sail for Epirus," Percy said. "We'll just close the gates on this
side."
"I wish it were that easy," Nico said. "The doors would have to be controlled
on both sides to be closed. It's like a double seal. Maybe, just maybe, all seven
of you working together could defeat Gaea's forces on the mortal side, at the
House of Hades. But unless you had a team fighting simultaneously on the
Tartarus side, a team powerful enough to defeat a legion of monsters in their

home territory-"
"There has to be a way," Jason said.
Nobody volunteered any brilliant ideas.
Percy thought his stomach was sinking. Then he realized the entire ship was
descending toward a big building like a palace.
Annabeth. Nico's news was so horrible Percy had momentarily forgotten she
was still in danger, which made him feel incredibly guilty.
"We'll figure out the Tartarus problem later," he said. "Is that the Emmanuel
Building?"
Leo nodded. "Bacchus said something about the parking lot in back? Well,
there it is. What now?"
Percy remembered his dream of the dark chamber, the evil buzzing voice of
the monster called Her Ladyship. He remembered how shaken Annabeth had
looked when she'd come back from Fort Sumter after her encounter with the
spiders. Percy had begun to suspect what might be down in that shrine_literally,
the mother of all spiders. If he was right, and Annabeth had been trapped down
there alone with that creature for hours, her leg broken_At this point, he didn't
care if her quest was supposed to be solo or not.
"We have to get her out," he said.
"Well, yeah," Leo agreed. "But, uh_"
He looked like he wanted to say, What if we're too late?
Wisely, he changed tack. "There's a parking lot in the way."
Percy looked at Coach Hedge. "Bacchus said something about breaking
through. Coach, you still have ammo for those ballistae?"
The satyr grinned like a wild goat. "I thought you'd never ask."

ANNABETH HAD REACHED HER TERROR LIMIT.
She'd been assaulted by chauvinist ghosts. She'd broken her ankle. She'd
been chased across a chasm by an army of spiders. Now, in severe pain, with her
ankle wrapped in boards and Bubble Wrap, and carrying no weapon except her
dagger, she faced Arachne-a monstrous half-spider who wanted to kill her and
make a commemorative tapestry about it.
In the last few hours, Annabeth had shivered, sweated, whimpered, and
blinked back so many tears that her body simply gave up on being scared. Her
mind said something like, Okay, sorry. I can't be any more terrified than I
already am.
So instead, Annabeth started to think.
The monstrous creature picked her way down from the top of the webcovered statue. She moved from strand to strand, hissing with pleasure, her four
eyes glittering in the dark. Either she was not in a hurry, or she was slow.
Annabeth hoped she was slow.
Not that it mattered. Annabeth was in no condition to run, and she didn't like
her chances in combat. Arachne probably weighed several hundred pounds.
Those barbed legs were perfect for capturing and killing prey. Besides, Arachne

probably had other horrible powers-a poisonous bite, or web-slinging abilities
like an Ancient Greek Spider-Man.
No. Combat was not the answer.
That left trickery and brains.
In the old legends, Arachne had gotten into trouble because of pride. She'd
bragged about her tapestries being better than Athena's, which had led to Mount
Olympus's first reality TV punishment program: So You Think You Can Weave
Better Than a Goddess? Arachne had lost in a big way.
Annabeth knew something about being prideful. It was her fatal flaw as well.
She often had to remind herself that she couldn't do everything alone. She
wasn't always the best person for every job. Sometimes she got tunnel vision
and forgot about what other people needed, even Percy. And she could get easily
distracted talking about her favorite projects.
But could she use that weakness against the spider? Maybe if she stalled for
time_though she wasn't sure how stalling would help. Her friends wouldn't be
able to reach her, even if they knew where to go. The cavalry would not be
coming. Still, stalling was better than dying.
She tried to keep her expression calm, which wasn't easy with a broken
ankle. She limped toward the nearest tapestry-a cityscape of Ancient Rome.
"Marvelous," she said. "Tell me about this tapestry."
Arachne's lips curled over her mandibles. "Why do you care? You're about
to die."
"Well, yes," Annabeth said. "But the way you captured the light is amazing.
Did you use real golden thread for the sunbeams?"
The weaving truly was stunning. Annabeth didn't have to pretend to be
impressed.
Arachne allowed herself a smug smile. "No, child. Not gold. I blended the
colors, contrasting bright yellow with darker hues. That's what gives it a threedimensional effect."
"Beautiful." Annabeth's mind split into two different levels: one carrying on
the conversation, the other madly grasping for a scheme to survive. Nothing
came to her. Arachne had been beaten only once-by Athena herself, and that

had taken godly magic and incredible skill in a weaving contest.
"So_" she said. "Did you see this scene yourself?"
Arachne hissed, her mouth foaming in a not-very-attractive way. "You are
trying to delay your death. It won't work."
"No, no," Annabeth insisted. "It just seems a shame that these beautiful
tapestries can't be seen by everyone. They belong in a museum, or_"
"Or what?" Arachne asked.
A crazy idea sprang fully formed from Annabeth's mind, like her mom
jumping out of Zeus's noggin. But could she make it work?
"Nothing." She sighed wistfully. "It's a silly thought. Too bad."
Arachne scuttled down the statue until she was perched atop the goddess's
shield. Even from that distance, Annabeth could smell the spider's stink, like an
entire bakery full of pastries left to go bad for a month.
"What?" the spider pressed. "What silly thought?"
Annabeth had to force herself not to back away. Broken ankle or no, every
nerve in her body pulsed with fear, telling her to get away from the huge spider
hovering over her.
"Oh_it's just that I was put in charge of redesigning Mount Olympus," she
said. "You know, after the Titan War. I've completed most of the work, but we
need a lot of quality public art. The throne room of the gods, for instance_I was
thinking your work would be perfect to display there. The Olympians could
finally see how talented you are. As I said, it was a silly thought."
Arachne's hairy abdomen quivered. Her four eyes glimmered as if she had a
separate thought behind each and was trying to weave them into a coherent web.
"You're redesigning Mount Olympus," she said. "My work_in the throne
room."
"Well, other places too," Annabeth said. "The main pavilion could use
several of these. That one with the Greek landscape-the Nine Muses would
love that. And I'm sure the other gods would be fighting over your work as well.
They'd compete to have your tapestries in their palaces. I guess, aside from
Athena, none of the gods has ever seen what you can do?"
Arachne snapped her mandibles. "Hardly. In the old days, Athena tore up all

my best work. My tapestries depicted the gods in rather unflattering ways, you
see. Your mother didn't appreciate that."
"Rather hypocritical," Annabeth said, "since the gods make fun of each other
all the time. I think the trick would be to pit one god against another. Ares, for
instance, would love a tapestry making fun of my mother. He's always resented
Athena."
Arachne's head tilted at an unnatural angle. "You would work against your
own mother?"
"I'm just telling you what Ares would like," Annabeth said. "And Zeus
would love something that made fun of Poseidon. Oh, I'm sure if the Olympians
saw your work, they'd realize how amazing you are, and I'd have to broker a
bidding war. As for working against my mother, why shouldn't I? She sent me
here to die, didn't she? The last time I saw her in New York, she basically
disowned me."
Annabeth told her the story. She shared her bitterness and sorrow, and it must
have sounded genuine. The spider did not pounce.
"This is Athena's nature," Arachne hissed. "She casts aside even her own
daughter. The goddess would never allow my tapestries to be shown in the
palaces of the gods. She was always jealous of me."
"But imagine if you could get your revenge at long last."
"By killing you!"
"I suppose." Annabeth scratched her head. "Or_by letting me be your agent.
I could get your work into Mount Olympus. I could arrange an exhibition for the
other gods. By the time my mother found out, it would be too late. The
Olympians would finally see that your work is better."
"Then you admit it!" Arachne cried. "A daughter of Athena admits I am
better! Oh, this is sweet to my ears."
"But a lot of good it does you," Annabeth pointed out. "If I die down here,
you go on living in the dark. Gaea destroys the gods, and they never realize you
were the better weaver."
The spider hissed.
Annabeth was afraid her mother might suddenly appear and curse her with

some terrible affliction. The first lesson every child of Athena learned: Mom was
the best at everything, and you should never, ever suggest otherwise.
But nothing bad happened. Maybe Athena understood that Annabeth was
only saying these things to save her life. Or maybe Athena was in such in bad
shape, split between her Greek and Roman personalities, that she wasn't even
paying attention.
"This will not do," Arachne grumbled. "I cannot allow it."
"Well_" Annabeth shifted, trying to keep her weight off her throbbing ankle.
A new crack appeared in the floor, and she hobbled back.
"Careful!" Arachne snapped. "The foundations of this shrine have been eaten
away over the centuries!"
Annabeth's heartbeat faltered. "Eaten away?"
"You have no idea how much hatred boils beneath us," the spider said. "The
spiteful thoughts of so many monsters trying to reach the Athena Parthenos and
destroy it. My webbing is the only thing holding the room together, girl! One
false step, and you'll fall all the way to Tartarus-and believe me, unlike the
Doors of Death, this would be a one-way trip, a very hard fall! I will not have
you dying before you tell me your plan for my artwork."
Annabeth's mouth tasted like rust. All the way to Tartarus? She tried to stay
focused, but it wasn't easy as she listened to the floor creak and crack, spilling
rubble into the void below.
"Right, the plan," Annabeth said. "Um_as I said, I'd love to take your
tapestries to Olympus and hang them everywhere. You could rub your
craftsmanship in Athena's nose for all eternity. But the only way I could do
that_No. It's too difficult. You might as well go ahead and kill me."
"No!" Arachne cried. "That is unacceptable. It no longer brings me any
pleasure to contemplate. I must have my work on Mount Olympus! What must I
do?"
Annabeth shook her head. "Sorry, I shouldn't have said anything. Just push
me into Tartarus or something."
"I refuse!"
"Don't be ridiculous. Kill me."

"I do not take orders from you! Tell me what I must do! Or_or-"
"Or you'll kill me?"
"Yes! No!" The spider pressed her front legs against her head. "I must show
my work on Mount Olympus."
Annabeth tried to contain her excitement. Her plan might actually work_but
she still had to convince Arachne to do something impossible. She remembered
some good advice Frank Zhang had given her: Keep it simple.
"I suppose I could pull a few strings," she conceded.
"I excel at pulling strings!" said Arachne. "I'm a spider!"
"Yes, but to get your work shown on Mount Olympus, we'd need a proper
audition. I'd have to pitch the idea, submit a proposal, put together a portfolio.
Hmm_do you have any headshots?"
"Headshots?"
"Glossy black-and-white_Oh, never mind. The audition piece is the most
important thing. These tapestries are excellent. But the gods would require
something really special-something that shows off your talent in the extreme."
Arachne snarled. "Are you suggesting that these are not my best work? Are
you challenging me to a contest?"
"Oh, no!" Annabeth laughed. "Against me? Gosh, no. You are much too
good. It would only be a contest against yourself, to see if you really have what it
takes to show your work on Mount Olympus."
"Of course I do!"
"Well, I certainly think so. But the audition, you know_it's a formality. I'm
afraid it would be very difficult. Are you sure you don't just want to kill me?"
"Stop saying that!" Arachne screeched. "What must I make?"
"I'll show you." Annabeth unslung her backpack. She took out Daedalus's
laptop and opened it. The delta logo glowed in the dark.
"What is that?" Arachne asked. "Some sort of loom?"
"In a way," Annabeth said. "It's for weaving ideas. It holds a diagram of the
artwork you would build."
Her fingers trembled on the keyboard. Arachne lowered herself to peer
directly over Annabeth's shoulder. Annabeth couldn't help thinking how easily

those needlelike teeth could sink into her neck.
She opened her 3-D imaging program. Her last design was still up-the key
to Annabeth's plan, inspired by the most unlikely muse ever: Frank Zhang.
Annabeth did some quick calculations. She increased the dimensions of the
model, then showed Arachne how it could be created-strands of material
woven into strips, then braided into a long cylinder.
The golden light from the screen illuminated the spider's face. "You want me
to make that? But this is nothing! So small and simple!"
"The actual size would be much bigger," Annabeth cautioned. "You see these
measurements? Naturally it must be large enough to impress the gods. It may
look simple, but the structure has incredible properties. Your spider silk would
be the perfect material-soft and flexible, yet hard as steel."
"I see_" Arachne frowned. "But this isn't even a tapestry."
"That's why it's a challenge. It's outside your comfort zone. A piece like this
-an abstract sculpture-is what the gods are looking for. It would stand in the
entry hall of the Olympian throne room for every visitor to see. You would be
famous forever!"
Arachne made a discontented hum in her throat. Annabeth could tell she
wasn't going for the idea. Her hands started to feel cold and sweaty.
"This would take a great deal of web," the spider complained. "More than I
could make in a year."
Annabeth had been hoping for that. She'd calculated the mass and size
accordingly. "You'd need to unravel the statue," she said. "Reuse the silk."
Arachne seemed about to object, but Annabeth waved at the Athena
Parthenos like it was nothing. "What's more important-covering that old statue
or proving your artwork is the best? Of course, you'd have to be incredibly
careful. You'd need to leave enough webbing to hold the room together. And if
you think it's too difficult-"
"I didn't say that!"
"Okay. It's just_Athena said that creating this braided structure would be
impossible for any weaver, even her. So if you don't think you can-"
"Athena said that?"

"Well, yeah."
"Ridiculous! I can do it!"
"Great! But you'd need to start right away, before the Olympians choose
another artist for their installations."
Arachne growled. "If you are tricking me, girl-"
"You'll have me right here as a hostage," Annabeth reminded her. "It's not
like I can go anywhere. Once this sculpture is complete, you'll agree that it's the
most amazing piece you've ever done. If not, I will gladly die."
Arachne hesitated. Her barbed legs were so close, she could've impaled
Annabeth with a quick swipe.
"Fine," the spider said. "One last challenge-against myself!"
Arachne climbed her web and began to unravel the Athena Parthenos.

ANNABETH LOST TRACK OF TIME.
She could feel the ambrosia she'd eaten earlier starting to repair her leg, but it
still hurt so badly that the pain throbbed right up to her neck. All along the walls,
small spiders scuttled in the darkness, as if awaiting their mistress's orders.
Thousands of them rustled behind the tapestries, making the woven scenes move
like wind.
Annabeth sat on the crumbling floor and tried to preserve her strength. While
Arachne wasn't watching, she attempted to get some sort of signal on
Daedalus's laptop to contact her friends, but of course she had no luck. That left
her nothing to do but watch in amazement and horror as Arachne worked, her
eight legs moving with hypnotic speed, slowly unraveling the silk strands around
the statue.
With its golden clothes and its luminous ivory face, the Athena Parthenos was
even scarier than Arachne. It gazed down sternly as if to say, Bring me tasty
snacks or else. Annabeth could imagine being an Ancient Greek, walking into
the Parthenon and seeing this massive goddess with her shield, spear, and
python, her free hand holding out Nike, the winged spirit of victory. It would've
been enough to put a kink in the chiton of any mortal.

More than that, the statue radiated power. As Athena was unwrapped, the air
around her grew warmer. Her ivory skin glowed with life. All across the room,
the smaller spiders became agitated and began retreating back into the hallway.
Annabeth guessed that Arachne's webs had somehow masked and dampened
the statue's magic. Now that it was free, the Athena Parthenos filled the chamber
with magical energy. Centuries of mortal prayers and burnt offerings had been
made it its presence. It was infused with the power of Athena.
Arachne didn't seem to notice. She kept muttering to herself, counting out
yards of silk and calculating the number of strands her project would require.
Whenever she hesitated, Annabeth called out encouragement and reminded her
how wonderful her tapestries would look on Mount Olympus.
The statue grew so warm and bright that Annabeth could see more details of
the shrine-the Roman masonry that had probably once been gleaming white,
the dark bones of Arachne's past victims and meals hanging in the web, and the
massive cables of silk that connected the floor to the ceiling. Annabeth now saw
just how fragile the marble tiles were under her feet. They were covered in a fine
layer of webbing, like mesh holding together a shattered mirror. Whenever the
Athena Parthenos shifted even slightly, more cracks spread and widened along
the floor. In some places, there were holes as big as manhole covers. Annabeth
almost wished it were dark again. Even if her plan succeeded and she defeated
Arachne, she wasn't sure how she could make it out of this chamber alive.
"So much silk," Arachne muttered. "I could make twenty tapestries-"
"Keep going!" Annabeth called up. "You're doing a wonderful job."
The spider kept working. After what seemed like forever, a mountain of
glistening silk was piled at the feet of the statue. The walls of the chamber were
still covered in webs. The support cables holding the room together hadn't been
disturbed. But the Athena Parthenos was free.
Please wake up, Annabeth begged the statue. Mother, help me.
Nothing happened, but the cracks seemed to be spreading across the floor
more rapidly. According to Arachne, the malicious thoughts of monsters had
eaten away at the shrine's foundations for centuries. If that was true, now that it
was free the Athena Parthenos might be attracting even more attention from the

monsters in Tartarus.
"The design," Annabeth said. "You should hurry."
She lifted the computer screen for Arachne to see, but the spider snapped,
"I've memorized it, child. I have an artist's eye for detail."
"Of course you do. But we should hurry."
"Why?"
"Well_so we can introduce your work to the world!"
"Hmm. Very well."
Arachne began to weave. It was slow work, turning silk strands into long
strips of cloth. The chamber rumbled. The cracks at Annabeth's feet became
wider.
If Arachne noticed, she didn't seem to care. Annabeth considered trying to
push the spider into the pit somehow, but she dismissed the idea. There wasn't a
big enough hole, and besides, if the floor gave way, Arachne could probably
hang from her silk and escape, while Annabeth and the ancient statue would
tumble into Tartarus.
Slowly, Arachne finished the long strips of silk and braided them together.
Her skill was flawless. Annabeth couldn't help being impressed. She felt another
flicker of doubt about her own mother. What if Arachne was a better weaver
than Athena?
But Arachne's skill wasn't the point. She had been punished for being
prideful and rude. No matter how amazing you were, you couldn't go around
insulting the gods. The Olympians were a reminder that there was always
someone better than you, so you shouldn't get a big head. Still_being turned
into a monstrous immortal spider seemed like a pretty harsh punishment for
bragging.
Arachne worked more quickly, bringing the strands together. Soon, the
structure was done. At the feet of the statue lay a braided cylinder of silk strips,
five feet in diameter and ten feet long. The surface glistened like abalone shell,
but it didn't seem beautiful to Annabeth. It was just functional: a trap. It would
only be beautiful if it worked.
Arachne turned to her with a hungry smile. "Done! Now, my reward! Prove

to me that you can deliver on your promises."
Annabeth studied the trap. She frowned and walked around it, inspecting the
weaving from every angle. Then, careful of her bad ankle, she got down on
hands and knees and crawled inside. She'd done the measurements in her head.
If she'd gotten them wrong, her plan was doomed. But she slipped through the
silken tunnel without touching the sides. The webbing was sticky, but not
impossibly so. She crawled out the other end and shook her head.
"There's a flaw," she said.
"What?!" Arachne cried. "Impossible! I followed your instructions-"
"Inside," Annabeth said. "Crawl in and see for yourself. It's right in the
middle-a flaw in the weaving."
Arachne foamed at the mouth. Annabeth was afraid she'd pushed too hard,
and the spider would snap her up. She'd be just another set of bones in the
cobwebs.
Instead, Arachne stamped her eight legs petulantly. "I do not make mistakes."
"Oh, it's small," Annabeth said. "You can probably fix it. But I don't want to
show the gods anything but your best work. Look, go inside and check. If you
can fix it, then we'll show it to the Olympians. You'll be the most famous artist
of all time. They'll probably fire the Nine Muses and hire you to oversee all the
arts. The goddess Arachne_yes, I wouldn't be surprised."
"The goddess_" Arachne's breathing turned shallow. "Yes, yes. I will fix
this flaw."
She poked her head into the tunnel. "Where is it?"
"Right in the middle," Annabeth urged. "Go ahead. It might be a bit snug for
you."
"I'm fine!" she snapped, and wriggled in.
As Annabeth had hoped, the spider's abdomen fit, but only barely. As she
pushed her way in, the braided strips of silk expanded to accommodate her.
Arachne got all the way up to her spinnerets.
"I see no flaw!" she announced.
"Really?" Annabeth asked. "Well, that's odd. Come out and I'll take another
look."

Moment of truth. Arachne wriggled, trying to back up. The woven tunnel
contracted around her and held her fast. She tried to wriggle forward, but the trap
was already stuck to her abdomen. She couldn't get through that way either.
Annabeth had been afraid the spider's barbed legs might puncture the silk, but
Arachne's legs were pressed so tightly against her body she could barely move
them.
"What-what is this?" she called. "I am stuck!"
"Ah," Annabeth said. "I forgot to tell you. This piece of art is called Chinese
Handcuffs. At least, it's a larger variation on that idea. I call it Chinese
Spidercuffs."
"Treachery!" Arachne thrashed and rolled and squirmed, but the trap held her
tight.
"It was a matter of survival," Annabeth corrected. "You were going to kill me
either way, whether I helped you or not, yes?"
"Well, of course! You're a child of Athena." The trap went still. "I mean_
no, of course not! I respect my promises."
"Uh-huh." Annabeth stepped back as the braided cylinder began to thrash
again. "Normally these traps are made from woven bamboo, but spider silk is
even better. It will hold you fast, and it's much too strong to break-even for
you."
"Gahhhh!" Arachne rolled and wriggled, but Annabeth moved out of the way.
Even with her broken ankle, she could manage to avoid a giant silk finger trap.
"I will destroy you!" Arachne promised. "I mean_no, I'll be very nice to you
if you let me out."
"I'd save my energy if I were you." Annabeth took a deep breath, relaxing for
the first time in hours. "I'm going to call my friends."
"You-you're going to call them about my artwork?" Arachne asked
hopefully.
Annabeth scanned the room. There had to be a way to send an Iris-message to
the Argo II. She had some water left in her bottle, but how to create enough light
and mist to make a rainbow in a dark cavern?
Arachne began to roll around again. "You're calling your friends to kill me!"

she shrieked. "I will not die! Not like this!"
"Calm down," Annabeth said. "We'll let you live. We just want the statue."
"The statue?"
"Yes." Annabeth should've left it at that, but her fear was turning to anger
and resentment. "The artwork that I'll display most prominently on Mount
Olympus? It won't be yours. The Athena Parthenos belongs there-right in the
central park of the gods."
"No! No, that's horrible!"
"Oh, it won't happen right away," Annabeth said. "First we'll take the statue
with us to Greece. A prophecy told us it has the power to help defeat the giants.
After that_well, we can't simply restore it to the Parthenon. That would raise
too many questions. It'll be safer in Mount Olympus. It will unite the children of
Athena and bring peace to the Romans and Greeks. Thanks for keeping it safe all
these centuries. You've done Athena a great service."
Arachne screamed and flailed. A strand of silk shot from the monster's
spinnerets and attached itself to a tapestry on the far wall. Arachne contracted
her abdomen and blindly ripped away the weaving. She continued to roll,
shooting silk randomly, pulling over braziers of magic fire and ripping tiles out
of the floor. The chamber shook. Tapestries began to burn.
"Stop that!" Annabeth tried to hobble out of the way of the spider's silk.
"You'll bring down the whole cavern and kill us both!"
"Better than seeing you win!" Arachne cried. "My children! Help me!"
Oh, great. Annabeth had hoped the statue's magic aura would keep away the
little spiders, but Arachne continued shrieking, imploring them to help.
Annabeth considered killing the spider woman to shut her up. It would be easy
to use her knife now. But she hesitated to kill any monster when it was so
helpless, even Arachne. Besides, if she stabbed through the braided silk, the trap
might unravel. It was possible Arachne could break free before Annabeth could
finish her off.
All these thoughts came too late. Spiders began swarming into the chamber.
The statue of Athena glowed brighter. The spiders clearly didn't want to
approach, but they edged forward as if gathering their courage. Their mother was

screaming for help. Eventually they would pour in, overwhelming Annabeth.
"Arachne, stop it!" she yelled. "I'll-"
Somehow Arachne twisted in her prison, pointing her abdomen toward the
sound of Annabeth's voice. A strand of silk hit her in the chest like a
heavyweight's glove.
Annabeth fell, her leg flaring with pain. She slashed wildly at the webbing
with her dagger as Arachne pulled her toward her snapping spinnerets.
Annabeth managed to cut the strand and crawl away, but the little spiders
were closing around her.
She realized her best efforts had not been enough. She wouldn't make it out
of here. Arachne's children would kill her at the feet of her mother's statue.
Percy, she thought, I'm sorry.
At that moment, the chamber groaned, and the cavern ceiling exploded in a
blast of fiery light.

ANNABETH HAD SEEN SOME STRANGE THINGS BEFORE, but she'd never seen it rain
cars.
As the roof of the cavern collapsed, sunlight blinded her. She got the briefest
glimpse of the Argo II hovering above. It must have used its ballistae to blast a
hole straight through the ground.
Chunks of asphalt as big as garage doors tumbled down, along with six or
seven Italian cars. One would've crushed the Athena Parthenos, but the statue's
glowing aura acted like a force field, and the car bounced off. Unfortunately, it
fell straight toward Annabeth.
She jumped to one side, twisting her bad foot. A wave of agony almost made
her pass out, but she flipped on her back in time to see a bright red Fiat 500 slam
into Arachne's silk trap, punching through the cavern floor and disappearing
with the Chinese Spidercuffs.
As Arachne fell, she screamed like a freight train on a collision course; but
her wailing rapidly faded. All around Annabeth, more chunks of debris slammed
through the floor, riddling it with holes.
The Athena Parthenos remained undamaged, though the marble under its
pedestal was a starburst of fractures. Annabeth was covered in cobwebs. She

trailed strands of leftover spider silk from her arms and legs like the strings of a
marionette, but somehow, amazingly, none of the debris had hit her. She wanted
to believe that the statue had protected her, though she suspected it might've
been nothing but luck.
The army of spiders had disappeared. Either they had fled back into the
darkness, or they'd fallen into the chasm. As daylight flooded the cavern,
Arachne's tapestries along the walls crumbled to dust, which Annabeth could
hardly bear to watch-especially the tapestry depicting her and Percy.
But none of that mattered when she heard Percy's voice from above:
"Annabeth!"
"Here!" she sobbed.
All the terror seemed to leave her in one massive yelp. As the Argo II
descended, she saw Percy leaning over the rail. His smile was better than any
tapestry she'd ever seen.
The room kept shaking, but Annabeth managed to stand. The floor at her feet
seemed stable for the moment. Her backpack was missing, along with
Daedalus's laptop. Her bronze knife, which she'd had since she was seven, was
also gone-probably fallen into the pit. But Annabeth didn't care. She was alive.
She edged closer to the gaping hole made by the Fiat 500. Jagged rock walls
plunged into the darkness as far as Annabeth could see. A few small ledges
jutted out here and there, but Annabeth saw nothing on them-just strands of
spider silk dripping over the sides like Christmas tinsel.
Annabeth wondered if Arachne had told the truth about the chasm. Had the
spider fallen all the way to Tartarus? She tried to feel satisfied with that idea, but
it made her sad. Arachne had made some beautiful things. She'd already
suffered for eons. Now her last tapestries had crumbled. After all that, falling
into Tartarus seemed like too harsh an end.
Annabeth was dimly aware of the Argo II hovering to a stop about forty feet
from the floor. It lowered a rope ladder, but Annabeth stood in a daze, staring
into the darkness. Then suddenly Percy was next to her, lacing his fingers in
hers.
He turned her gently away from the pit and wrapped his arms around her. She

buried her face in his chest and broke down in tears.
"It's okay," he said. "We're together."
He didn't say you're okay, or we're alive. After all they'd been through over
the last year, he knew the most important thing was that they were together. She
loved him for saying that.
Their friends gathered around them. Nico di Angelo was there, but
Annabeth's thoughts were so fuzzy, this didn't seem surprising to her. It seemed
only right that he would be with them.
"Your leg." Piper knelt next to her and examined the Bubble Wrap cast. "Oh,
Annabeth, what happened?"
She started to explain. Talking was difficult, but as she went along, her words
came more easily. Percy didn't let go of her hand, which also made her feel
more confident. When she finished, her friends' faces were slack with
amazement.
"Gods of Olympus," Jason said. "You did all that alone. With a broken
ankle."
"Well_some of it with a broken ankle."
Percy grinned. "You made Arachne weave her own trap? I knew you were
good, but Holy Hera-Annabeth, you did it. Generations of Athena kids tried
and failed. You found the Athena Parthenos!"
Everyone gazed at the statue.
"What do we do with her?" Frank asked. "She's huge."
"We'll have to take her with us to Greece," Annabeth said. "The statue is
powerful. Something about it will help us stop the giants."
"The giants' bane stands gold and pale," Hazel quoted. "Won with pain from
a woven jail." She looked at Annabeth with admiration. "It was Arachne's jail.
You tricked her into weaving it."
With a lot of pain, Annabeth thought.
Leo raised his hands. He made a finger picture frame around the Athena
Parthenos like he was taking measurements. "Well, it might take some
rearranging, but I think we can fit her through the bay doors in the stable. If she
sticks out the end, I might have to wrap a flag around her feet or something."

Annabeth shuddered. She imagined the Athena Parthenos jutting from their
trireme with a sign across her pedestal that read: WIDE LOAD.
Then she thought about the other lines of the prophecy: The twins snuff out
the angel's breath, who holds the keys to endless death.
"What about you guys?" she asked. "What happened with the giants?"
Percy told her about rescuing Nico, the appearance of Bacchus, and the fight
with the twins in the Colosseum. Nico didn't say much. The poor guy looked
like he'd been wandering through a wasteland for six weeks. Percy explained
what Nico had found out about the Doors of Death, and how they had to be
closed on both sides. Even with sunlight streaming in from above, Percy's news
made the cavern seem dark again.
"So the mortal side is in Epirus," she said. "At least that's somewhere we can
reach."
Nico grimaced. "But the other side is the problem. Tartarus."
The word seemed to echo through the chamber. The pit behind them exhaled
a cold blast of air. That's when Annabeth knew with certainty. The chasm did go
straight to the Underworld.
Percy must have felt it too. He guided her a little farther from the edge. Her
arms and legs trailed spider silk like a bridal train. She wished she had her
dagger to cut that junk off. She almost asked Percy to do the honors with
Riptide, but before she could, he said, "Bacchus mentioned something about my
voyage being harder than I expected. Not sure why-"
The chamber groaned. The Athena Parthenos tilted to one side. Its head
caught on one of Arachne's support cables, but the marble foundation under the
pedestal was crumbling.
Nausea swelled in Annabeth's chest. If the statue fell into the chasm, all her
work would be for nothing. Their quest would fail.
"Secure it!" Annabeth cried.
Her friends understood immediately.
"Zhang!" Leo cried. "Get me to the helm, quick! The coach is up there
alone."
Frank transformed into a giant eagle, and the two of them soared toward the

ship.
Jason wrapped his arm around Piper. He turned to Percy. "Back for you guys
in a sec." He summoned the wind and shot into the air.
"This floor won't last!" Hazel warned. "The rest of us should get to the
ladder."
Plumes of dust and cobwebs blasted from holes in the floor. The spider's silk
support cables trembled like massive guitar strings and began to snap. Hazel
lunged for the bottom of the rope ladder and gestured for Nico to follow, but
Nico was in no condition to sprint.
Percy gripped Annabeth's hand tighter. "It'll be fine," he muttered.
Looking up, she saw grappling lines shoot from the Argo II and wrap around
the statue. One lassoed Athena's neck like a noose. Leo shouted orders from the
helm as Jason and Frank flew frantically from line to line, trying to secure them.
Nico had just reached the ladder when a sharp pain shot up Annabeth's bad
leg. She gasped and stumbled.
"What is it?" Percy asked.
She tried to stagger toward the ladder. Why was she moving backward
instead? Her legs swept out from under her and she fell on her face.
"Her ankle!" Hazel shouted from the ladder. "Cut it! Cut it!"
Annabeth's mind was woolly from the pain. Cut her ankle?
Apparently Percy didn't realize what Hazel meant either. Then something
yanked Annabeth backward and dragged her toward the pit. Percy lunged. He
grabbed her arm, but the momentum carried him along as well.
"Help them!" Hazel yelled.
Annabeth glimpsed Nico hobbling in their direction, Hazel trying to
disentangle her cavalry sword from the rope ladder. Their other friends were still
focused on the statue, and Hazel's cry was lost in the general shouting and the
rumbling of the cavern.
Annabeth sobbed as she hit the edge of the pit. Her legs went over the side.
Too late, she realized what was happening: she was tangled in the spider silk.
She should have cut it away immediately. She had thought it was just loose line,
but with the entire floor covered in cobwebs, she hadn't noticed that one of the

strands was wrapped around her foot-and the other end went straight into the
pit. It was attached to something heavy down in the darkness, something that
was pulling her in.
"No," Percy muttered, light dawning in his eyes. "My sword_"
But he couldn't reach Riptide without letting go of Annabeth's arm, and
Annabeth's strength was gone. She slipped over the edge. Percy fell with her.
Her body slammed into something. She must have blacked out briefly from
the pain. When she could see again, she realized that she'd fallen partway into
the pit and was dangling over the void. Percy had managed to grab a ledge about
fifteen feet below the top of the chasm. He was holding on with one hand,
gripping Annabeth's wrist with the other, but the pull on her leg was much too
strong.
No escape, said a voice in the darkness below. I go to Tartarus, and you will
come too.
Annabeth wasn't sure if she actually heard Arachne's voice or if it was just in
her mind.
The pit shook. Percy was the only thing keeping her from falling. He was
barely holding on to a ledge the size of a bookshelf.
Nico leaned over the edge of the chasm, thrusting out his hand, but he was
much too far away to help. Hazel was yelling for the others, but even if they
heard her over all the chaos, they'd never make it in time.
Annabeth's leg felt like it was pulling free of her body. Pain washed
everything in red. The force of the Underworld tugged at her like dark gravity.
She didn't have the strength to fight. She knew she was too far down to be
saved.
"Percy, let me go," she croaked. "You can't pull me up."
His face was white with effort. She could see in his eyes that he knew it was
hopeless.
"Never," he said. He looked up at Nico, fifteen feet above. "The other side,
Nico! We'll see you there. Understand?"
Nico's eyes widened. "But-"
"Lead them there!" Percy shouted. "Promise me!"

"I-I will."
Below them, the voice laughed in the darkness. Sacrifices. Beautiful
sacrifices to wake the goddess.
Percy tightened his grip on Annabeth's wrist. His face was gaunt, scraped and
bloody, his hair dusted with cobwebs, but when he locked eyes with her, she
thought he had never looked more handsome.
"We're staying together," he promised. "You're not getting away from me.
Never again."
Only then did she understand what would happen. A one-way trip. A very
hard fall.
"As long as we're together," she said.
She heard Nico and Hazel still screaming for help. She saw the sunlight far,
far above-maybe the last sunlight she would ever see.
Then Percy let go of his tiny ledge, and together, holding hands, he and
Annabeth fell into the endless darkness.

LEO WAS STILL IN SHOCK.
Everything had happened so quickly. They had secured grappling lines to the
Athena Parthenos just as the floor gave way, and the final columns of webbing
snapped. Jason and Frank dove down to save the others, but they'd only found
Nico and Hazel hanging from the rope ladder. Percy and Annabeth were gone.
The pit to Tartarus had been buried under several tons of debris. Leo pulled the
Argo II out of the cavern seconds before the entire place imploded, taking the
rest of the parking lot with it.
The Argo II was now parked on a hill overlooking the city. Jason, Hazel, and
Frank had returned to the scene of the catastrophe, hoping to dig through the
rubble and find a way to save Percy and Annabeth, but they'd come back
demoralized. The cavern was simply gone. The scene was swarming with police
and rescue workers. No mortals had been hurt, but the Italians would be
scratching their heads for months, wondering how a massive sinkhole had
opened right in the middle of a parking lot and swallowed a dozen perfectly
good cars.
Dazed with grief, Leo and the others carefully loaded the Athena Parthenos
into the hold, using the ship's hydraulic winches with an assist from Frank

Zhang, part-time elephant. The statue just fit, though what they were going to do
with it, Leo had no idea.
Coach Hedge was too miserable to help. He kept pacing the deck with tears in
his eyes, pulling at his goatee and slapping the side of his head, muttering, "I
should have saved them! I should have blown up more stuff!"
Finally Leo told him to go belowdecks and secure everything for departure.
He wasn't doing any good beating himself up.
The six demigods gathered on the quarterdeck and gazed at the distant
column of dust still rising from the site of the implosion.
Leo rested his hand on the Archimedes sphere, which now sat on the helm,
ready to be installed. He should have been excited. It was the biggest discovery
of his life-even bigger than Bunker 9. If he could decipher Archimedes's
scrolls, he could do amazing things. He hardly dared to hope, but he might even
be able to build a new control disk for a certain dragon friend of his.
Still, the price had been too high.
He could almost hear Nemesis laughing. I told you we could do business, Leo
Valdez.
He had opened the fortune cookie. He'd gotten the access code for the sphere
and saved Frank and Hazel. But the sacrifice had been Percy and Annabeth. Leo
was sure of it.
"It's my fault," he said miserably.
The others stared at him. Only Hazel seemed to understand. She'd been with
him at the Great Salt Lake.
"No," she insisted. "No, this is Gaea's fault. It had nothing to do with you."
Leo wanted to believe that, but he couldn't. They'd started this voyage with
Leo messing up, firing on New Rome. They'd ended in old Rome with Leo
breaking a cookie and paying a price much worse than an eye.
"Leo, listen to me." Hazel gripped his hand. "I won't allow you to take the
blame. I couldn't bear that after-after Sammy_"
She choked up, but Leo knew what she meant. His bisabuelo had blamed
himself for Hazel's disappearance. Sammy had lived a good life, but he'd gone
to his grave believing that he'd spent a cursed diamond and doomed the girl he

loved.
Leo didn't want to make Hazel miserable all over again, but this was
different. True success requires sacrifice. Leo had chosen to break that cookie.
Percy and Annabeth had fallen into Tartarus. That couldn't be a coincidence.
Nico di Angelo shuffled over, leaning on his black sword. "Leo, they're not
dead. If they were, I could feel it."
"How can you be sure?" Leo asked. "If that pit really led to_you know_
how could you sense them so far away?"
Nico and Hazel shared a look, maybe comparing notes on their Hades/Pluto
death radar. Leo shivered. Hazel had never seemed like a child of the
Underworld to him, but Nico di Angelo-that guy was creepy.
"We can't be one hundred percent sure," Hazel admitted. "But I think Nico is
right. Percy and Annabeth are still alive_at least, so far."
Jason pounded his fist against the rail. "I should've been paying attention. I
could have flown down and saved them."
"Me, too," Frank moaned. The big dude looked on the verge of tears.
Piper put her hand on Jason's back. "It's not your fault, either of you. You
were trying to save the statue."
"She's right," Nico said. "Even if the pit hadn't been buried, you couldn't
have flown into it without being pulled down. I'm the only one who has actually
been into Tartarus. It's impossible to describe how powerful that place is. Once
you get close, it sucks you in. I never stood a chance."
Frank sniffled. "Then Percy and Annabeth don't stand a chance either?"
Nico twisted his silver skull ring. "Percy is the most powerful demigod I've
ever met. No offense to you guys, but it's true. If anybody can survive, he will,
especially if he's got Annabeth at his side. They're going to find a way through
Tartarus."
Jason turned. "To the Doors of Death, you mean. But you told us it's guarded
by Gaea's most powerful forces. How could two demigods possibly-?"
"I don't know," Nico admitted. "But Percy told me to lead you guys to
Epirus, to the mortal side of the doorway. He's planning on meeting us there. If
we can survive the House of Hades, fight our way through Gaea's forces, then

maybe we can work together with Percy and Annabeth and seal the Doors of
Death from both sides."
"And get Percy and Annabeth back safely?" Leo asked.
"Maybe."
Leo didn't like the way Nico said that, as if he wasn't sharing all his doubts.
Besides, Leo knew something about locks and doors. If the Doors of Death
needed to be sealed from both sides, how could they do that unless someone
stayed in the Underworld, trapped?
Nico took a deep breath. "I don't know how they'll manage it, but Percy and
Annabeth will find a way. They'll journey through Tartarus and find the Doors
of Death. When they do, we have to be ready."
"It won't be easy," Hazel said. "Gaea will throw everything she's got at us to
keep us from reaching Epirus."
"What else is new?" Jason sighed.
Piper nodded. "We've got no choice. We have to seal the Doors of Death
before we can stop the giants from raising Gaea. Otherwise her armies will never
die. And we've got to hurry. The Romans are in New York. Soon, they'll be
marching on Camp Half-Blood."
"We've got one month at best," Jason added. "Ephialtes said Gaea would
awaken in exactly one month."
Leo straightened. "We can do it."
Everyone stared at him.
"The Archimedes sphere can upgrade the ship," he said, hoping he was right.
"I'm going to study those ancient scrolls we got. There's got to be all kinds of
new weapons I can make. We're going to hit Gaea's armies with a whole new
arsenal of hurt."
At the prow of the ship, Festus creaked his jaw and blew fire defiantly.
Jason managed a smile. He clapped Leo on the shoulder.
"Sounds like a plan, Admiral. You want to set the course?"
They kidded him, calling him Admiral, but for once Leo accepted the title.
This was his ship. He hadn't come this far to be stopped.
They would find this House of Hades. They'd take the Doors of Death. And

by the gods, if Leo had to design a grabber arm long enough to snatch Percy and
Annabeth out of Tartarus, then that's what he would do.
Nemesis wanted him to wreak vengeance on Gaea? Leo would be happy to
oblige. He was going to make Gaea sorry she had ever messed with Leo Valdez.
"Yeah." He took one last look at the cityscape of Rome, turning bloodred in
the sunset. "Festus, raise the sails. We've got some friends to save."

Glossary
A_E alpha, theta, epsilon. In Greek it stands for of the Athenians, or the
children of Athena.
Achelous a potamus, or river god Alcyoneus the eldest of the giants born to
Gaea, destined to fight Pluto Amazons a nation of all-female warriors
Aphrodite the Greek goddess of love and beauty. She was married to
Hephaestus, but she loved Ares, the god of war. Roman form: Venus Arachne
a weaver who claimed to have skills superior to Athena's. This angered the
goddess, who destroyed Arachne's tapestry and loom. Arachne hung herself,
and Athena brought her back to life as a spider.
Archimedes a Greek mathematician, physicist, engineer, inventor, and
astronomer who lived between 287 and 212 BCE and is regarded as one of the
leading scientists in classical antiquity Ares the Greek god of war; the son of
Zeus and Hera, and half brother to Athena. Roman form: Mars argentum
silver Argo II the fantastical ship built by Leo, which can both sail and fly and
has Festus's bronze dragon head as its figurehead. The ship was named after
the Argo, the vessel used by a band of Greek heroes who accompanied Jason
on his quest to find the Golden Fleece.
Athena the Greek goddess of wisdom. Roman form: Minerva Athena
Parthenos a giant statue of Athena: the most famous Greek statue of all time
augury a sign of something coming, an omen; the practice of divining the
future aurum gold Bacchus the Roman god of wine and revelry. Greek form:
Dionysus ballista (ballistae, pl.) a Roman missile siege weapon that launched
a large projectile at a distant target (see also Scorpion ballista) Bellona a
Roman goddess of war Camp Half-Blood the training ground for Greek
demigods, located on Long Island, New York Camp Jupiter the training
ground for Roman demigods, located between the Oakland Hills and the
Berkeley Hills, in California Celestial bronze a rare metal deadly to monsters

centaur a race of creatures that is half human, half horse centurion an officer
of the Roman army Ceres the Roman goddess of agriculture. Greek form:
Demeter charmspeak a blessing bestowed by Aphrodite on her children that
enables them to persuade others with their voice chiton a Greek garment; a
sleeveless piece of linen or wool secured at the shoulders by brooches and at
the waist by a belt Chrysaor the brother of Pegasus, the son of Poseidon and
Medusa; known as "the Gold Sword"
Circe a Greek sorceress. In ancient times, she turned Odysseus's crew into
swine.
Colosseum an elliptical amphitheater in the center of Rome, Italy. Capable of
seating 50,000 spectators, the Colosseum was used for gladiatorial contests
and public spectacles such as mock sea battles, animal hunts, executions, reenactments of famous battles, and dramas.
cornucopia a large horn-shaped container overflowing with edibles or wealth in
some form. The cornucopia was created when Heracles (Roman: Hercules)
wrestled with the river god Achelous and wrenched off one of his horns.
Cyclops a member of a primordial race of giants (Cyclopes, pl.), each with a
single eye in the middle of his or her forehead Daedalus in Greek mythology,
a skilled craftsman who created the Labyrinth on Crete in which the Minotaur
(part man, part bull) was kept Deianira Heracles's second wife. She was of
such striking beauty that both Heracles and Achelous wanted to marry her and
there was a contest to win her hand. The centaur Nessus tricked her into killing
Heracles by dipping his tunic in what she thought was a love potion but was
actually Nessus's poisonous blood.
Demeter the Greek goddess of agriculture, a daughter of the Titans Rhea and
Kronos. Roman form: Ceres denarius (denarii, pl.) the most common coin in
the Roman currency system Dionysus the Greek god of wine and revelry, a
son of Zeus. Roman form: Bacchus Doors of Death a well-hidden passageway
that when open allows souls to travel from the Underworld to the world of
mortals drachma the silver coin of Ancient Greece drakon gigantic serpent
eidolon possessing spirit Ephialtes and Otis twin giants, sons of Gaea Epirus
a region presently in northwestern Greece and southern Albania Eurystheus a

grandson of Perseus, who, through the favor of Hera, inherited the kingship of
Mycenae, which Zeus had intended for Heracles faun a Roman forest god, part
goat and part man. Greek form: satyr Fortuna the Roman goddess of fortune
and good luck. Greek form: Tyche Forum The Roman Forum was the center
of ancient Rome, a plaza where Romans conducted business, trials, and
religious activities.
Gaea the Greek earth goddess; mother of Titans, giants, Cyclopes, and other
monsters. Roman form: Terra gladius a short sword Gorgons three monstrous
sisters who have hair of living, venomous snakes. The most famous, Medusa,
had eyes that turned the beholder to stone.
greaves shin armor Greek fire an incendiary weapon used in naval battles
because it can continue burning in water Hades the Greek god of death and
riches. Roman form: Pluto Hadrian a Roman Emperor who ruled from 117 to
138 CE. He is best known for building Hadrian's Wall, which marked the
northern limit of Roman Britain. In Rome, he rebuilt the Pantheon and
constructed the Temple of Venus and Roma.
Hagno a nymph who is said to have brought up Zeus. On Mount Lycaeus in
Arcadia there was a well sacred to and named after her.
harpy a winged female creature that snatches things Hebe the goddess of youth;
the daughter of Zeus and Hera, and married to Heracles. Roman form:
Juventas Hephaestus the Greek god of fire and crafts and of blacksmiths; the
son of Zeus and Hera, and married to Aphrodite. Roman form: Vulcan Hera
the Greek goddess of marriage; Zeus's wife and sister. Roman form: Juno
Heracles the Greek equivalent of Hercules; the son of Zeus and Alcmene; the
strongest of all mortals Hercules the Roman equivalent of Heracles; the son of
Jupiter and Alcmene, who was born with great strength hippocampi creatures
that from the waist up have the body of a horse and from the waist down have
silvery fish bodies, with glistening scales and rainbow tail fins. They were
used to draw Poseidon's chariot, and sea foam was created by their movement.
hippodrome a Greek stadium for horse racing and chariot racing House of
Hades an underground temple in Epirus, Greece, dedicated to the Hades and
Persephone, sometimes called a necromanteion, or "oracle of death." Ancient

Greeks believed it marked one entrance to the Underworld, and pilgrims would
go there to commune with the dead.
hypogeum the area under a coliseum that housed set pieces and machinery used
for special effects ichthyocentaur a fish-centaur described as having the
forefeet of a horse, a human torso and head, and a fish tail. It is sometimes
shown with a pair of lobster-claw horns.
Imperial gold a rare metal deadly to monsters, consecrated at the Pantheon; its
existence was a closely guarded secret of the emperors Invidia the Roman
goddess of revenge. Greek form: Nemesis Iris the Greek rainbow goddess and
a messenger of the gods; the daughter of Thaumas and Electra. Roman form:
Iris Juno the Roman goddess of women, marriage, and fertility; sister and wife
of Jupiter; mother of Mars. Greek form: Hera Jupiter the Roman king of the
gods; also called Jupiter Optimus Maximus (the best and the greatest). Greek
form: Zeus Juventas the Roman goddess of youth. Greek form: Hebe Kalends
of July the first day of July, which was sacred to Juno karpoi grain spirits
Katoptris Piper's dagger, once owned by Helen of Troy. The word means
"looking glass."
Keto the Greek goddess of sea monsters and large sea creatures, such as whales
and sharks. She is the daughter of Gaea and the sister-wife of Phorcys, god of
the dangers of the sea.
Khione the Greek goddess of snow; daughter of Boreas Kronos the Greek god
of agriculture, the son of Uranus and Gaea and the father of Zeus. Roman
form: Saturn Lar a house god, ancestral spirit of Rome (Lares, pl.).
Lupa the sacred Roman she-wolf that nursed the foundling twins Romulus and
Remus Marcus Agrippa a Roman statesman and general; defense minister to
Octavian, and responsible for most of his military victories. He commissioned
the Pantheon as a temple to all the gods of Ancient Rome.
Mare Nostrum Latin for Our Sea, was a Roman name for the Mediterranean
Sea Mars the Roman god of war; also called Mars Ultor. Patron of the empire;
divine father of Romulus and Remus. Greek form: Ares Minerva the Roman
goddess of wisdom. Greek form: Athena Minotaur a monster with the head of
a bull on the body of a man Mist a magic force that disguises things from

mortals Mithras Originally a Persian god of the sun, Mithras was worshipped
by Roman warriors as a guardian of arms and a patron of soldiers.
muskeg bog Narcissus a Greek hunter who was renowned for his beauty. He
was exceptionally proud and disdained those who loved him. Nemesis saw this
and attracted Narcissus to a pool where he saw his reflection in the water and
fell in love with it. Unable to leave the beauty of his reflection, Narcissus died.
Nemesis the Greek goddess of revenge. Roman form: Invidia Neptune the
Roman god of the sea. Greek form: Poseidon Nereids fifty female sea spirits;
patrons of sailors and fishermen and caretakers of the sea's bounty Nessus a
crafty centaur who tricked Deianira into killing Heracles New Rome a
community near Camp Jupiter where demigods can live together in peace,
without interference from mortals or monsters Nike the Greek goddess of
strength, speed, and victory. Roman form: Victoria nymph a female nature
deity who animates nature nymphaeum a shrine to nymphs Pantheon a
building in Rome, Italy, commissioned by Marcus Agrippa as a temple to all
the gods of Ancient Rome, and rebuilt by Emperor Hadrian in about 126 CE
pater Latin for father; also the name of an ancient Roman god of the
Underworld, later subsumed by Pluto pauldron a piece of plate armor for the
shoulder and the upper part of the arm Pegasus In Greek mythology, a winged
divine horse; sired by Poseidon, in his role as horse-god, and foaled by the
Gorgon Medusa; the brother of Chrysaor Persephone the Greek queen of the
Underworld; wife of Hades; daughter of Zeus and Demeter. Roman form:
Proserpine Phorcys In Greek mythology, a primordial god of the dangers of
the sea; son of Gaea; brother-husband of Keto Piazza Navona a city square in
Rome, built on the site of the Stadium of Domitian, where Ancient Romans
watched competitive games Pluto the Roman god of death and riches. Greek
form: Hades Polybotes the giant son of Gaea, the Earth Mother Pomerian
Line the boundary around New Rome, and in ancient times, the city limits of
Rome Porphyrion the king of the Giants in Greek and Roman mythology
Poseidon the Greek god of the sea; son of the Titans Kronos and Rhea, and
brother of Zeus and Hades. Roman form: Neptune praetor an elected Roman
magistrate and commander of the army Proserpine Roman queen of the

Underworld. Greek form: Persephone Rhea Silvia a priestess and mother of
the twins Romulus and Remus, who founded Rome Riptide the name of Percy
Jackson's sword (Anaklusmos in Greek) Romulus and Remus the twin sons
of Mars and the priestess Rhea Silvia. They were thrown into the River Tiber
by their human father, Amulius, and rescued and raised by a she-wolf. Upon
reaching adulthood, they founded Rome.
Saturn the Roman god of agriculture; the son of Uranus and Gaea, and the
father of Jupiter. Greek form: Kronos satyr a Greek forest god, part goat and
part man. Roman equivalent: faun Scorpion ballista a Roman missile siege
weapon that launched a large projectile at a distant target Senatus Populusque
Romanus (SPQR) meaning "The Senate and People of Rome," refers to the
government of the Roman Republic and is used as an official emblem of Rome
skolopendra a gargantuan Greek sea monster with hairy nostrils, a flat
crayfish-like tail, and rows of webbed feet lining its flanks Stymphalian birds
in Greek mythology, man-eating birds with bronze beaks and sharp metallic
feathers they could launch at their victims; sacred to Ares, the god of war
Sybilline Books a collection of prophecies in rhyme written in Greek.
Tarquinius Superbus, a king of Rome, bought them from a prophetess named
Sibyl and consulted them in times of great danger.
Tartarus husband of Gaea; spirit of the abyss; father of the giants telkhines
mysterious sea demons and smiths native to the islands of Kaos and Rhodes;
children of Thalassa and Pontus; they had flippers instead of hands and dogs'
heads and were known as fish children Terminus the Roman god of
boundaries and landmarks Terra the Roman goddess of the Earth. Greek form:
Gaea Thanatos the Greek god of death. Roman form: Letus thyrsus
Bacchus's weapon, a staff topped by a pinecone and twined with ivy Tiber
River the third-longest river in Italy. Rome was founded on its banks. In
Ancient Rome, executed criminals were thrown into the river.
Tiberius was Roman Emperor from 14 CE to 37 CE. He was one of Rome's
greatest generals, but he came to be remembered as a reclusive and somber
ruler who never really wanted to be emperor.
Titans a race of powerful Greek deities, descendants of Gaia and Uranus, who

ruled during the Golden Age and were overthrown by a race of younger gods,
the Olympians Trevi Fountain a fountain in the Trevi district in Rome.
Standing more than eighty-five feet high and sixty-five feet wide, it is the
largest Baroque fountain in the city and one of the most famous fountains in
the world.
trireme an Ancient Greek or Roman warship, having three tiers of oars on each
side Tyche the Greek goddess of good luck; daughter of Hermes and
Aphrodite. Roman form: Fortuna Venus the Roman goddess of love and
beauty. She was married to Vulcan, but she loved Mars, the god of war. Greek
form: Aphrodite Vestal Virgins Roman priestesses of Vesta, goddess of the
hearth. The Vestals were free of the usual social obligations to marry and bear
children and took a vow of chastity in order to devote themselves to the study
and observance of ritual.
Via Labicana an ancient road of Italy, leading east-southeast from Rome Via
Principalis the main street in a Roman camp or fort Victoria the Roman
goddess of strength, speed, and victory. Greek form: Nike Vulcan the Roman
god of fire and crafts and of blacksmiths; the son of Jupiter and Juno, and
married to Venus. Greek form: Hephaestus Wolf House a ruined mansion,
originally commissioned by Jack London near Sonoma, California, where
Percy Jackson was trained as a Roman demigod by Lupa Zeus Greek god of
the sky and king of the gods. Roman form: Jupiter

Coming Fall 2013
The Heroes of Olympus, Book Four
THE HOUSE OF HADES

Praise for Percy Jackson and the Olympians by Rick Riordan: The Lightning
Thief "Perfectly paced, with electrifying moments chasing each other like
heartbeats."
-The New York Times Book Review The Sea of Monsters "In a feat worthy of his heroic subjects,
Riordan crafts a sequel stronger than his compelling debut."
-Publishers Weekly (starred review) The Titan's Curse "All in all, a winner of Olympic proportions."
-School Library Journal The Battle of the Labyrinth "Look no further for the next Harry Potter; meet
Percy Jackson, as legions of fans already have."
-Kirkus Reviews (starred review) The Last Olympian "The hordes of young readers who have devoured
Rick Riordan's books...will no doubt gulp down this concluding volume as greedily as they would a plateful
of ambrosia, or maybe pizza."
-The Wall Street Journal

Praise for The Kane Chronicles by Rick Riordan: The Red Pyramid "The
first volume in the Kane Chronicles, this fantasy adventure delivers what fans
loved about the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series: young protagonists
with previously unsuspected magical powers, a riveting story marked by
headlong adventure, a complex background rooted in ancient mythology, and
wry, witty twenty-first-century narration."
-Booklist (starred review)

"A truly original take on Egyptian mythology ...A must-have book."

-School Library Journal (starred review) "Riordan fans young and old will eat this new book up."
-The New York Times Book Review The Throne of Fire
"...Riordan kickstarts the action, never lets up
on the gas, balances laughs and losses with a sure hand, and expertly sets up the coming climactic struggle
without (thankfully) ending on a cliff-hanger. It's a grand ride so far, showing nary a sign of slowing
down."
-School Library Journal (starred review) "Riordan combines hard-hitting action scenes, powerful magic,
and comic relief with the internal waves of love, jealousy, and self-doubt that make his young heroes so
very human."
-Booklist

The Serpent's Shadow "[The] epic battle and the quiet concluding chapters glow, alternating heroism
and humanity, with any trace of bombast erased by the wry wit of the alternating narrators, Sadie and
Carter . . . powered by Riordan's talent for creating vividly written action scenes and his ability to keep a
complicated story moving, this volume brings the Kane Chronicles series to a rousing conclusion."
-Booklist "Beyond the explosive action and fireworks, Riordan deftly develops the theme of the duality of
the universe-order versus chaos, living a normal life versus risking the extraordinary, being protected by
parents versus growing up and stepping out of their shadows. A rousing adventure with plenty of magic and
food for thought."
-Kirkus Reviews

Praise for The Heroes of Olympus by Rick Riordan:
Book One: The Lost Hero
"Percy Jackson fans can rest easy: this first book in Riordan's Heroes of Olympus spin-off series is a fastpaced adventure with enough familiar elements to immediately hook those eager to revisit his modern world
of mythological mayhem. Rotating among his three protagonists, Riordan's storytelling is as polished as
ever, brimming with wit, action, and heart-his devotees won't be disappointed."
-Publishers Weekly
"Riordan [maximizes] the elements that made the first series so popular: irreverent heroes, plenty of
tension-filled moments fighting monsters, and authentic classical mythology mixed in with modern life.
Completely in control of pacing and tone, he balances a faultless comic banter against deeper notes that
reveal the characters' vulnerabilities. With Percy Jackson slated to make an appearance in later volumes,
fans nostalgic for the old books should find in this new series everything they've been pining for."
-Horn Book

Book Two: The Son of Neptune
"Riordan's seamless weaving of various cultural mythologies into a
modern landscape continues to shine in [The] Son of Neptune. As in previous books, the plot is
engrossing, the characters robust and compelling. Percy, Frank, and Hazel alternate as narrators
without missing a beat of pace, suspense, or humor. Readers will find themselves automatically
consumed by the story without having read the first book, though some knowledge of Percy's previous
adventures will help fill in minor gaps of background information. [The] Son of Neptune is yet another
absorbing and exciting addition to Riordan's chronicles."
-VOYA(starred review) "Should pacing and wit continue unabated into the third volume, whose foretold
European setting promises further freshness, fans will eagerly await numbers four and five."
-Kirkus Reviews

About the Author Rick Riordan is the author of the
New York Times #1 best-selling The Lost Hero and The
Son of Neptune, the first two books in his Heroes of
Olympus series. He also penned the New York Times #1
best-selling Percy Jackson and the Olympians series:
Book One: The Lightning Thief; Book Two: The Sea of
Monsters; Book Three: The Titan's Curse; Book Four:
The Battle of the Labyrinth; and Book Five: The Last
Olympian. His three books in the Kane Chronicles,
based on Egyptian mythology, The Red Pyramid, The
Throne of Fire, and The Serpent's Shadow, were New
York Times best sellers as well. Rick lives in San
Antonio, Texas, with his wife and two sons. To learn
more about him, visit his Web site at
www.rickriordan.com.

Copyright _ 2010 by Rick Riordan All rights reserved. Published by Disney _ Hyperion Books, an imprint of Disney Book Group. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without written permission from the publisher. For information address Disney _ Hyperion Books, 114 FifthAvenue, New York, New York 10011-5690. First Edition 13 5 7 9 10 86 4 2 V567-9638-5-10213 Printed in the United States ofAmerica Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data on file. ISBN 978-1-4231-4540-0 Visit www.hyperionbooksforchildren.com Table of Contents Also By Rick Riordan I JASON II JASON IIIPIPER IV PIPER V LEO VI LEO VII JASON VIII JASON IX PIPER X PIPER XI LEO XII LEO XIII JASON XIV JASON XV PIPER XVIPIPER XVII LEO XVIII LEO XIX JASON XX JASON XXIPIPER XXIIPIPER XXIII LEO XXIV LEO XXV JASON XXVI JASON XXVIIPIPER XXVIIIPIPER XXIX LEO XXX LEO XXXI JASON XXXII JASON XXXIIIPIPER XXXIV PIPER XXXV LEO XXXVI LEO XXXVII JASON XXXVIII JASON XXXIX PIPER XL PIPER XLI LEO XLII LEO XLIII JASON XLIV JASON XLV PIPER XLVIPIPER XLVII LEO XLVIII LEO XLIX JASON L JASON LIPIPER LIIPIPER LIIPIPER LIII LEO LIV LEO LV JASON LVI JASON Gods in The Lost Hero Coming Fall 2011 Praise for The Percy Jackson Series by Rick Riordan: Praise for The Kane Chronicles Book 1:The Red Pyramid byRick Riordan: About the Author For Haley and Patrick, always the first to hear stories Without them, Camp Half-Blood would not exist. Also by Rick Riordan Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book One: The Lightning Thief Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Two: The Sea of Monsters Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Three: The Titan's Curse Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Four: The Battle of the Labyrinth Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Five: The Last Olympian The Kane Chronicles, Book One: The Red Pyramid EVEN BEFORE HE GOT ELECTROCUTED, Jason was having a rotten day. He woke in the backseat of a school bus, not sure where he was, holding hands with a girl he didn't know. That wasn't necessarily the rotten part. The girl was cute, but he couldn't figure out who she was or what he was doing there. He sat up and rubbed his eyes, trying to think. A few dozen kids sprawled in the seats in front of him, listening to iPods, talking, or sleeping. They all looked around his age _ fifteen? Sixteen? Okay, that was scary. He didn't know his own age. The bus rumbled along a bumpy road. Out the windows, desert rolled by under a bright blue sky. Jason was pretty sure he didn't live in the desert. He tried to think back _ the last thing he remembered _ The girl squeezed his hand. "Jason, you okay?" She wore faded jeans, hiking boots, and a fleece snowboarding jacket. Her chocolate brown hair was cut choppy and uneven, with thin strands braided down the sides. She wore no makeup like she was trying not to draw attention to herself, but it didn't work. She was seriously pretty. Her eyes seemed to change color like a kaleidoscope-brown, blue, and green. Jason let go of her hand. "Um, I don't-" In the front of the bus, a teacher shouted, "All right, cupcakes, listen up!" The guy was obviously a coach. His baseball cap was pulled low over his hair, so you could just see his beady eyes. He had a wispy goatee and a sour face, like he'd eaten something moldy. His buff arms and chest pushed against a bright orange polo shirt. His nylon workout pants and Nikes were spotless white. A whistle hung from his neck, and a megaphone was clipped to his belt. He would've looked pretty scary if he hadn't been five feet zero. When he stood up in the aisle, one of the students called, "Stand up, Coach Hedge!" "I heard that!" The coach scanned the bus for the offender. Then his eyes fixed on Jason, and his scowl deepened. A jolt went down Jason's spine. He was sure the coach knew he didn't belong there. He was going to call Jason out, demand to know what he was doing on the bus-and Jason wouldn't have a clue what to say. But Coach Hedge looked away and cleared his throat. "We'll arrive in five minutes! Stay with your partner. Don't lose your worksheet. And if any of you precious little cupcakes causes any trouble on this trip, I will personally send you back to campus the hard way." He picked up a baseball bat and made like he was hitting a homer. Jason looked at the girl next to him. "Can he talk to us that way?" She shrugged. "Always does. This is the Wilderness School. 'Where kids are the animals.'" She said it like it was a joke they'd shared before. "This is some kind of mistake," Jason said. "I'm not supposed to be here." The boy in front of him turned and laughed. "Yeah, right, Jason. We've all been framed! I didn't run away six times. Piper didn't steal a BMW." The girl blushed. "I didn't steal that car, Leo!" "Oh, I forgot, Piper. What was your story? You 'talked' the dealer into lending it to you?" He raised his eyebrows at Jason like, Can you believe her? Leo looked like a Latino Santa's elf, with curly black hair, pointy ears, a cheerful, babyish face, and a mischievous smile that told you right away this guy should not be trusted around matches or sharp objects. His long, nimble fingers wouldn't stop moving-drumming on the seat, sweeping his hair behind his ears, fiddling with the buttons of his army fatigue jacket. Either the kid was naturally hyper or he was hopped up on enough sugar and caffeine to give a heart attack to a water buffalo. "Anyway," Leo said, "I hope you've got your worksheet, 'cause I used mine for spit wads days ago. Why are you looking at me like that? Somebody draw on my face again?" "I don't know you," Jason said. Leo gave him a crocodile grin. "Sure. I'm not your best friend. I'm his evil clone." "Leo Valdez!" Coach Hedge yelled from the front. "Problem back there?" Leo winked at Jason. "Watch this." He turned to the front. "Sorry, Coach! Iwas having trouble hearing you. Could you use your megaphone, please?" Coach Hedge grunted like he was pleased to have an excuse. He unclipped the megaphone from his belt and continued giving directions, but his voice came out like Darth Vader's. The kids cracked up. The coach tried again, but this time the megaphone blared: "The cow says moo!" The kids howled, and the coach slammed down the megaphone. "Valdez!" Piper stifled a laugh. "My god, Leo. How did you do that?" Leo slipped a tiny Phillips head screwdriver from his sleeve. "I'm a special boy." "Guys, seriously," Jason pleaded. "What am I doing here? Where are we going?" Piper knit her eyebrows. "Jason, are you joking?" "No! I have no idea-" "Aw, yeah, he's joking," Leo said. "He's trying to get me back for that shaving cream on the Jell-O thing, aren't you?" Jason stared at him blankly. "No, I think he's serious." Piper tried to take his hand again, but he pulled it away. "I'm sorry," he said. "I don't-I can't-" "That's it!" Coach Hedge yelled from the front. "The back row has just volunteered to clean up after lunch!" The rest of the kids cheered. "There's a shocker," Leo muttered. But Piper kept her eyes on Jason, like she couldn't decide whether to be hurt or worried. "Did you hit your head or something? You really don't know who we are?" Jason shrugged helplessly. "It's worse than that. I don't know who I am." The bus dropped them in front of a big red stucco complex like a museum, just sitting in the middle of nowhere. Maybe that's what it was: the National Museum of Nowhere, Jason thought. A cold wind blew across the desert. Jason hadn't paid much attention to what he was wearing, but it wasn't nearly warm enough: jeans and sneakers, a purple T-shirt, and a thin black windbreaker. "So, a crash course for the amnesiac," Leo said, in a helpful tone that made Jason think this was not going to be helpful. "We go to the 'Wilderness School'"-Leo made air quotes with his fingers. "Which means we're 'bad kids.' Your family, or the court, or whoever, decided you were too much trouble, so they shipped you off to this lovely prison-sorry, 'boarding school'-in Armpit, Nevada, where you learn valuable nature skills like running ten miles a day through the cacti and weaving daisies into hats! And for a special treat we go on 'educational' field trips with Coach Hedge, who keeps order with a baseball bat. Is it all coming back to you now?" "No." Jason glanced apprehensively at the other kids: maybe twenty guys, half that many girls. None of them looked like hardened criminals, but he wondered what they'd all done to get sentenced to a school for delinquents, and he wondered why he belonged with them. Leo rolled his eyes. "You're really gonna play this out, huh? Okay, so the three of us started here together this semester. We're totally tight. You do everything I say and give me your dessert and do my chores-" "Leo!" Piper snapped. "Fine. Ignore that last part. But we a r e friends. Well, Piper's a little more than your friend, the last few weeks-" "Leo, stop it!" Piper's face turned red. Jason could feel his face burning too. He thought he'd remember if he'd been going face burning too. He thought hed remember if hed been going out with a girl like Piper. "He's got amnesia or something," Piper said. "We've got to tell somebody." Leo scoffed. "Who, Coach Hedge? He'd try to fix Jason by whacking him upside the head." The coach was at the front of the group, barking orders and blowing his whistle to keep the kids in line; but every so often he'd glance back at Jason and scowl. "Leo, Jason needs help," Piper insisted. "He's got a concussion or-" "Yo, Piper." One of the other guys dropped back to join them as the group was heading into the museum. The new guy wedged himself between Jason and Piper and knocked Leo down. "Don't talk to these bottom-feeders. You're my partner, remember?" The new guy had dark hair cut Superman style, a deep tan, and teeth so white they should've come with a warning label: do not stare directly at teeth. permanent blindness may occur. He wore a Dallas Cowboys jersey, Western jeans and boots, and he smiled like he was God's gift to juvenile delinquent girls everywhere. Jason hated him instantly. "Go away, Dylan," Piper grumbled. "I didn't ask to work with you." "Ah, that's no way to be. This is your lucky day!" Dylan hooked his arm through hers and dragged her through the museum entrance. Piper shot one last look over her shoulder like, 911. Leo got up and brushed himself off. "I hate that guy." He offered Jason his arm, like they should go skipping inside together. "'I'm Dylan. I'm so cool, I want to date myself, but I can't figure out how! You want to date me instead? You're so lucky!'" "Leo," Jason said, "you're weird." "Yeah, you tell me that a lot." Leo grinned. "But if you don't remember me, that means I can reuse all my old jokes. Come on!" Jason figured that if this was his best friend, his life must be pretty messed up; but he followed Leo into the museum. They walked through the building, stopping here and there for Coach Hedge to lecture them with his megaphone, which alternately made him sound like a Sith Lord or blared out random comments like "The pig says oink." Leo kept pulling out nuts, bolts, and pipe cleaners from the pockets of his army jacket and putting them together, like he had to keep his hands busy at all times. Jason was too distracted to pay much attention to the exhibits, but they were about the Grand Canyon and the Hualapai tribe, which owned the museum. Some girls kept looking over at Piper and Dylan and snickering. Jason figured these girls were the popular clique. They wore matching jeans and pink tops and enough makeup for a Halloween party. One of them said, "Hey, Piper, does your tribe run this place? Do you get in free if you do a rain dance?" The other girls laughed. Even Piper's so-called partner Dylan suppressed a smile. Piper's snowboarding jacket sleeves hid her hands, but Jason got the feeling she was clenching her fists. "My dad's Cherokee," she said. "Not Hualapai. 'Course, you'd need a few brain cells to know the difference, Isabel." Isabel widened her eyes in mock surprise, so that she looked like an owl with a makeup addiction. "Oh, sorry! Was your mom in this tribe? Oh, that's right. You never knew your mom." Piper charged her, but before a fight could start, Coach Hedge barked, "Enough back there! Set a good example or I'll break out my baseball bat!" The group shuffled on to the next exhibit, but the girls kept calling out little comments to Piper. "Good to be back on the rez?" one asked in a sweet voice. "Dad's probably too drunk to work," another said with fake sympathy. "That's why she turned klepto." Piper ignored them, but Jason was ready to punch themhimself. He might not remember Piper, or even who he was, but he knew he hated mean kids. Leo caught his arm. "Be cool. Piper doesn't like us fighting her battles. Besides, if those girls found out the truth about her dad, they'd be all bowing down to her and screaming, 'We're not worthy!'" "Why? What about her dad?" Leo laughed in disbelief. "You're not kidding? You really don't remember that your girlfriend's dad-" "Look, I wish I did, but I don't even remember her, much less her dad." Leo whistled. "Whatever. We have to talk when we get back to the dorm." They reached the far end of the exhibit hall, where some big glass doors led out to a terrace. "All right, cupcakes," Coach Hedge announced. "You are about to see the Grand Canyon. Try not to break it. The skywalk can hold the weight of seventy jumbo jets, so you featherweights should be safe out there. If possible, try to avoid pushing each other over the edge, as that would cause me extra paperwork." The coach opened the doors, and they all stepped outside. The Grand Canyon spread before them, live and in person. Extending over the edge was a horseshoe-shaped walkway made of glass, so you could see right through it. "Man," Leo said. "That's pretty wicked." Jason had to agree. Despite his amnesia and his feeling that he didn't belong there, he couldn't help being impressed. The canyon was bigger and wider than you could appreciate from a picture. They were up so high that birds circled below their feet. Five hundred feet down, a river snaked along the canyon floor. Banks of storm clouds had moved overhead while they'd been inside, casting shadows like angry faces across the cliffs. As far as Jason could see in any direction, red and gray ravines cut through the desert like some crazy god had taken a knife to it. Jason got a piercing pain behind his eyes. Crazy gods ... Where had he come up with that idea? He felt like he'd gotten close to something important-something he should knowabout. He also got the unmistakable feeling he was in danger. "You all right?" Leo asked. "You're not going to throw up over the side, are you? 'Cause I should've brought my camera. " Jason grabbed the railing. He was shivering and sweaty, but it had nothing to do with heights. He blinked, and the pain behind his eyes subsided. "I'm fine," he managed. "Just a headache." Thunder rumbled overhead. A cold wind almost knocked him sideways. "This can't be safe." Leo squinted at the clouds. "Storm's right over us, but it's clear all the way around. Weird, huh?" Jason looked up and saw Leo was right. A dark circle of clouds had parked itself over the skywalk, but the rest of the sky in every direction was perfectly clear. Jason had a bad feeling about that. "All right, cupcakes!" Coach Hedge yelled. He frowned at the storm like it bothered him too. "We may have to cut this short, so get to work! Remember, complete sentences!" The storm rumbled, and Jason's head began to hurt again. Not knowing why he did it, he reached into his jeans pocket and brought out a coin-a circle of gold the size of a half-dollar, but thicker and more uneven. Stamped on one side was a picture of a battle-ax. On the other was some guy's face wreathed in laurels. The inscription said something like ivlivs. "Dang, is that gold?" Leo asked. "You been holding out on me!" Jason put the coin away, wondering how he'd come to have it, and why he had the feeling he was going to need it soon. "It's nothing," he said. "Just a coin." Leo shrugged. Maybe his mind had to keep moving as much as his hands. "Come on," he said. "Dare you to spit over the edge." They didn't try very hard on the worksheet. For one thing, Jason was too distracted by the storm and his own mixed-up feelings. For another thing, he didn't have any idea how to "name three sedimentary strata you observe" or "describe two examples of erosion." Leo was no help. He was too busy building a helicopter out of pipe cleaners. "Check it out." He launched the copter. Jason figured it would plummet, but the pipe-cleaner blades actually spun. The little copter made it halfway across the canyon before it lost momentum and spiraled into the void. "How'd you do that?" Jason asked. Leo shrugged. "Would've been cooler if I had some rubber bands." "Seriously," Jason said, "are we friends?" "Last I checked." "You sure? What was the first day we met? What did we talk about?" "It was _" Leo frowned. "I don't recall exactly. I'm ADHD, man. You can't expect me to remember details." "But I don't remember you at all. I don't remember anyone here. What if-" "You're right and everyone else is wrong?" Leo asked. "You think you just appeared here this morning, and we've all got fake memories of you?" A little voice in Jason's head said, That's exactly what I think. But it sounded crazy. Everybody here took him for granted. Everyone acted like he was a normal part of the class-except for Coach Hedge. "Take the worksheet." Jason handed Leo the paper. "I'll be right back." Before Leo could protest, Jason headed across the skywalk. Their school group had the place to themselves. Maybe it was too early in the day for tourists, or maybe the weird weather had scared them off. The Wilderness School kids had spread out in pairs across the skywalk. Most were joking around or talking. Some of the guys were dropping pennies over the side. About fifty feet away, Piper was trying to fill out her worksheet, but her stupid partner Dylan was hitting on her, putting his hand on her shoulder and giving her that blinding white smile. She kept pushing him away, and when she sawJason she gave him a look like, Throttle this guy for me. Jason motioned for her to hang on. He walked up to Coach Hedge, who was leaning on his baseball bat, studying the storm clouds. "Did you do this?" the coach asked him. Jason took a step back. "Do what?" It sounded like the coach had just asked if he'd made the thunderstorm. Coach Hedge glared at him, his beady little eyes glinting under the brim of his cap. "Don't play games with me, kid. What are you doing here, and why are you messing up my job? " "You mean...you don't know me?" Jason said. "I'm not one of your students?" Hedge snorted. "Never seen you before today." Jason was so relieved he almost wanted to cry. At least he wasn't going insane. He was in the wrong place. "Look, sir, I don't know how I got here. I just woke up on the school bus. All I know is I'm not supposed to be here." "Got that right." Hedge's gruff voice dropped to a murmur, like he was sharing a secret. "You got a powerful way with the Mist, kid, if you can make all these people think they know you; but you can't fool me. I've been smelling monster for days now. I knew we had an infiltrator, but you don't smell like a monster. You smell like a half-blood. So-who are you, and where'd you come from?" Most of what the coach said didn't make sense, but Jason decided to answer honestly. "I don't know who I am. I don't have any memories. You've got to help me." Coach Hedge studied his face like was trying to read Jason's thoughts. "Great," Hedge muttered. "You're being truthful." "Of course I am! And what was all that about monsters and half-bloods? Are those code words or something?" Hedge narrowed his eyes. Part of Jason wondered if the guy was just nuts. But the other part knew better. "Look, kid," Hedge said, "I don't know who you are. I just know what you are, and it means trouble. Now I got to protect three of you rather than two. Are you the special package? Is that it?" "What are you talking about?" Hedge looked at the storm. The clouds were getting thicker and darker, hovering right over the skywalk. "This morning," Hedge said, "I got a message from camp. They said an extraction team is on the way. They're coming to pick up a special package, but they wouldn't give me details. I thought to myself, Fine. The two I'm watching are pretty powerful, older than most. I know they're being stalked. I can smell a monster in the group. I figure that's why the camp is suddenly frantic to pick them up. But then you pop up out of nowhere. So, are you the special package?" The pain behind Jason's eyes got worse than ever. Halfbloods. Camp. Monsters. He still didn't know what Hedge was talking about, but the words gave him a massive brain freeze -like his mind was trying to access information that should've been there but wasn't. He stumbled, and Coach Hedge caught him. For a short guy, the coach had hands like steel. "Whoa, there, cupcake. You say you got no memories, huh? Fine. I'll just have to watch you, too, until the team gets here. We'll let the director figure things out." "What director?" Jason said. "What camp?" "Just sit tight. Reinforcements should be here soon. Hopefully nothing happens before-" Lightning crackled overhead. The wind picked up with a vengeance. Worksheets flew into the Grand Canyon, and the entire bridge shuddered. Kids screamed, stumbling and grabbing the rails. "I had to say something," Hedge grumbled. He bellowed into his megaphone: "Everyone inside! The cow says moo! Off the skywalk!" "I thought you said this thing was stable!" Jason shouted over the wind. "Under normal circumstances," Hedge agreed, "which these aren't. Come on!" THE STORM CHURNED INTO A MINIATURE HURRICANE. Funnel clouds snaked toward the skywalk like the tendrils of a monster jellyfish. Kids screamed and ran for the building. The wind snatched away their notebooks, jackets, hats, and backpacks. Jason skidded across the slick floor. Leo lost his balance and almost toppled over the railing, but Jason grabbed his jacket and pulled him back. "Thanks, man!" Leo yelled. "Go, go, go!" said Coach Hedge. Piper and Dylan were holding the doors open, herding the other kids inside. Piper's snowboarding jacket was flapping wildly, her dark hair all in her face. Jason thought she must've been freezing, but she looked calm and confident-telling the others it would be okay, encouraging them to keep moving. Jason, Leo, and Coach Hedge ran toward them, but it was like running through quicksand. The wind seemed to fight them, pushing them back. Dylan and Piper pushed one more kid inside, then lost their grip on the doors. They slammed shut, closing off the skywalk. Piper tugged at the handles. Inside, the kids pounded on the glass, but the doors seemed to be stuck. "Dylan, help!" Piper shouted. Dylan just stood there with an idiotic grin, his Cowboys jersey rippling in the wind, like he was suddenly enjoying the storm. "Sorry, Piper," he said. "I'm done helping." He flicked his wrist, and Piper flew backward, slamming into the doors and sliding to the skywalk deck. "Piper!" Jason tried to charge forward, but the wind was against him, and Coach Hedge pushed him back. "Coach," Jason said, "let me go!" "Jason, Leo, stay behind me," the coach ordered. "This is my fight. I should've known that was our monster." "What?" Leo demanded. A rogue worksheet slapped himin the face, but he swatted it away. "What monster?" The coach's cap blew off, and sticking up above his curly hair were two bumps-like the knots cartoon characters get when they're bonked on the head. Coach Hedge lifted his baseball bat-but it wasn't a regular bat anymore. Somehow it had changed into a crudely shaped tree-branch club, with twigs and leaves still attached. Dylan gave him that psycho happy smile. "Oh, come on, Coach. Let the boy attack me! After all, you're getting too old for this. Isn't that why they retired you to this stupid school? I've been on your team the entire season, and you didn't even know. You're losing your nose, grandpa." The coach made an angry sound like an animal bleating. "That's it, cupcake. You're going down." "You think you can protect three half-bloods at once, old man?" Dylan laughed. "Good luck." Dylan pointed at Leo, and a funnel cloud materialized around him. Leo flew off the skywalk like he'd been tossed. Somehow he managed to twist in midair, and slammed sideways into the canyon wall. He skidded, clawing furiously for any handhold. Finally he grabbed a thin ledge about fifty feet below the skywalk and hung there by his fingertips. "Help!" he yelled up at them. "Rope, please? Bungee cord? Something?" Coach Hedge cursed and tossed Jason his club. "I don't know who you are, kid, but I hope you're good. Keep that thing busy"-he stabbed a thumb at Dylan-"while I get Leo." "Get him how?" Jason demanded. "You going to fly?" "Not fly. Climb." Hedge kicked off his shoes, and Jason almost had a coronary. The coach didn't have any feet. He had hooves-goat's hooves. Which meant those things on his head, Jason realized, weren't bumps. They were horns. "You're a faun," Jason said. "Satyr!" Hedge snapped. "Fauns are Roman. But we'll talk about that later." Hedge leaped over the railing. He sailed toward the canyon wall and hit hooves first. He bounded down the cliff with impossible agility, finding footholds no bigger than postage stamps, dodging whirlwinds that tried to attack him as he picked his way toward Leo. "Isn't that cute!" Dylan turned toward Jason. "Now it's your turn, boy." Jason threw the club. It seemed useless with the winds so strong, but the club flew right at Dylan, even curving when he tried to dodge, and smacked him on the head so hard he fell to his knees. Piper wasn't as dazed as she appeared. Her fingers closed around the club when it rolled next to her, but before she could use it, Dylan rose. Blood-golden blood-trickled fromhis forehead. "Nice try, boy." He glared at Jason. "But you'll have to do better." The skywalk shuddered. Hairline fractures appeared in the glass. Inside the museum, kids stopped banging on the doors. They backed away, watching in terror. Dylan's body dissolved into smoke, as if his molecules were coming unglued. He had the same face, the same brilliant white smile, but his whole form was suddenly composed of swirling black vapor, his eyes like electrical sparks in a living storm cloud. He sprouted black smoky wings and rose above the skywalk. If angels could be evil, Jason decided, they would look exactly like this. "You're a ventus," Jason said, though he had no idea howhe knew that word. "A storm spirit." Dylan's laugh sounded like a tornado tearing off a roof. "I'm glad I waited, demigod. Leo and Piper I've known about for weeks. Could've killed them at any time. But my mistress said a third was coming-someone special. She'll reward me greatly for your death!" Two more funnel clouds touched down on either side of Dylan and turned into venti-ghostly young men with smoky wings and eyes that flickered with lightning. Piper stayed down, pretending to be dazed, her hand still gripping the club. Her face was pale, but she gave Jason a determined look, and he understood the message: Keep their attention. I'll brain them from behind. Cute, smart, and violent. Jason wished he remembered having her as a girlfriend. He clenched his fists and got ready to charge, but he never got a chance. Dylan raised his hand, arcs of electricity running between his fingers, and blasted Jason in the chest. Bang! Jason found himself flat on his back. His mouth tasted like burning aluminum foil. He lifted his head and sawthat his clothes were smoking. The lightning bolt had gone straight though his body and blasted off his left shoe. His toes were black with soot. The storm spirits were laughing. The winds raged. Piper was screaming defiantly, but it all sounded tinny and far away. Out of the corner of his eye, Jason saw Coach Hedge climbing the cliff with Leo on his back. Piper was on her feet, desperately swinging the club to fend off the two extra stormspirits, but they were just toying with her. The club went right through their bodies like they weren't there. And Dylan, a dark and winged tornado with eyes, loomed over Jason. "Stop," Jason croaked. He rose unsteadily to his feet, and he wasn't sure who was more surprised: him, or the stormspirits. "How are you alive?" Dylan's form flickered. "That was enough lightning to kill twenty men!" "My turn," Jason said. He reached in his pocket and pulled out the gold coin. He let his instincts take over, flipping the coin in the air like he'd done it a thousand times. He caught it in his palm, and suddenly he was holding a sword-a wickedly sharp doubleedged weapon. The ridged grip fit his fingers perfectly, and the whole thing was gold-hilt, handle, and blade. Dylan snarled and backed up. He looked at his two comrades and yelled, "Well? Kill him!" The other storm spirits didn't look happy with that order, but they flew at Jason, their fingers crackling with electricity. Jason swung at the first spirit. His blade passed through it, and the creature's smoky form disintegrated. The second spirit let loose a bolt of lightning, but Jason's blade absorbed the charge. Jason stepped in-one quick thrust, and the second storm spirit dissolved into gold powder. Dylan wailed in outrage. He looked down as if expecting his comrades to re-form, but their gold dust remains dispersed in the wind. "Impossible! Who are you, half-blood?" Piper was so stunned she dropped her club. "Jason, how_ ?" Then Coach Hedge leaped back onto the skywalk and dumped Leo like a sack of flour. "Spirits, fear me!" Hedge bellowed, flexing his short arms. Then he looked around and realized there was only Dylan. "Curse it, boy!" he snapped at Jason. "Didn't you leave some for me? I like a challenge!" Leo got to his feet, breathing hard. He looked completely humiliated, his hands bleeding from clawing at the rocks. "Yo, Coach Supergoat, whatever you are-I just fell down the freaking Grand Canyon! Stop asking for challenges!" Dylan hissed at them, but Jason could see fear in his eyes. "You have no idea how many enemies you've awakened, half-bloods. My mistress will destroy all demigods. This war you cannot win." Above them, the storm exploded into a full-force gale. Cracks expanded in the skywalk. Sheets of rain poured down, and Jason had to crouch to keep his balance. A hole opened in the clouds-a swirling vortex of black and silver. "The mistress calls me back!" Dylan shouted with glee. "And you, demigod, will come with me!" He lunged at Jason, but Piper tackled the monster frombehind. Even though he was made of smoke, Piper somehowmanaged to connect. Both of them went sprawling. Leo, Jason, and the coach surged forward to help, but the spirit screamed with rage. He let loose a torrent that knocked them all backward. Jason and Coach Hedge landed on their butts. Jason's sword skidded across the glass. Leo hit the back of his head and curled on his side, dazed and groaning. Piper got the worst of it. She was thrown off Dylan's back and hit the railing, tumbling over the side until she was hanging by one hand over the abyss. Jason started toward her, but Dylan screamed, "I'll settle for this one!" He grabbed Leo's arm and began to rise, towing a halfconscious Leo below him. The storm spun faster, pulling themupward like a vacuum cleaner. "Help!" Piper yelled. "Somebody!" Then she slipped, screaming as she fell. "Jason, go!" Hedge yelled. "Save her!" The coach launched himself at the spirit with some serious goat fu-lashing out with his hooves, knocking Leo free fromthe spirit's grasp. Leo dropped safely to the floor, but Dylan grappled the coach's arms instead. Hedge tried to head-butt him, then kicked him and called him a cupcake. They rose into the air, gaining speed. Coach Hedge shouted down once more, "Save her! I got this!" Then the satyr and the storm spirit spiraled into the clouds and disappeared. Save her? Jason thought. She's gone! But again his instincts won. He ran to the railing, thinking, I'm a lunatic, and jumped over the side. Jason wasn't scared of heights. He was scared of being smashed against the canyon floor five hundred feet below. He figured he hadn't accomplished anything except for dying along with Piper, but he tucked in his arms and plummeted headfirst. The sides of the canyon raced past like a film on fast-forward. His face felt like it was peeling off. In a heartbeat, he caught up with Piper, who was flailing wildly. He tackled her waist and closed his eyes, waiting for death. Piper screamed. The wind whistled in Jason's ears. He wondered what dying would feel like. He was thinking, probably not so good. He wished somehow they could never hit bottom. Suddenly the wind died. Piper's scream turned into a strangled gasp. Jason thought they must be dead, but he hadn't felt any impact. "J-J-Jason," Piper managed. He opened his eyes. They weren't falling. They were floating in midair, a hundred feet above the river. He hugged Piper tight, and she repositioned herself so she was hugging him too. They were nose to nose. Her heart beat so hard, Jason could feel it through her clothes. Her breath smelled like cinnamon. She said, "How did you-" "I didn't," he said. "I think Iwould know if I could fly_" But then he thought: I don't even knowwho I am. He imagined going up. Piper yelped as they shot a fewfeet higher. They weren't exactly floating, Jason decided. He could feel pressure under his feet like they were balancing at the top of a geyser. "The air is supporting us," he said. "Well, tell it to support us more! Get us out of here!" Jason looked down. The easiest thing would be to sink gently to the canyon floor. Then he looked up. The rain had stopped. The storm clouds didn't seem as bad, but they were still rumbling and flashing. There was no guarantee the spirits were gone for good. He had no idea what had happened to Coach Hedge.And he'd left Leo up there, barely conscious. "We have to help them," Piper said, as if reading his thoughts. "Can you-" "Let's see." Jason thought Up, and instantly they shot skyward. The fact he was riding the winds might've been cool under different circumstances, but he was too much in shock. As soon as they landed on the skywalk, they ran to Leo. Piper turned Leo over, and he groaned. His army coat was soaked from the rain. His curly hair glittered gold from rolling around in monster dust. But at least he wasn't dead. "Stupid _ ugly _ goat," he muttered. "Where did he go?" Piper asked. Leo pointed straight up. "Never came down. Please tell me he didn't actually save my life." "Twice," Jason said. Leo groaned even louder. "What happened? The tornado guy, the gold sword _ I hit my head. That's it, right? I'mhallucinating?" Jason had forgotten about the sword. He walked over to where it was lying and picked it up. The blade was well balanced. On a hunch he flipped it. Midspin, the sword shrank back into a coin and landed in his palm. "Yep," Leo said. "Definitely hallucinating." Piper shivered in her rain-soaked clothes. "Jason, those things-" "Venti," he said. "Storm spirits." "Okay. You acted like _ like you'd seen them before. Who are you?" He shook his head. "That's what I've been trying to tell you. I don't know." The storm dissipated. The other kids from the Wilderness School were staring out the glass doors in horror. Security guards were working on the locks now, but they didn't seem to be having any luck. "Coach Hedge said he had to protect three people," Jason remembered. "I think he meant us." "And that thing Dylan turned into _" Piper shuddered. "God, I can't believe it was hitting on me. He called us... what, demigods?" Leo lay on his back, staring at the sky. He didn't seemanxious to get up. "Don't know what demi means," he said. "But I'm not feeling too godly. You guys feeling godly?" There was a brittle sound like dry twigs snapping, and the cracks in the skywalk began to widen. "We need to get off this thing," Jason said. "Maybe if we-" "Ohhh-kay," Leo interrupted. "Look up there and tell me if those are flying horses." At first Jason thought Leo had hit his head too hard. Then he saw a dark shape descending from the east-too slow for a plane, too large for a bird. As it got closer he could see a pair of winged animals-gray, four-legged, exactly like horses -except each one had a twenty-foot wingspan. And they were pulling a brightly painted box with two wheels: a chariot. "Reinforcements," he said. "Hedge told me an extraction squad was coming for us." "Extraction squad?" Leo struggled to his feet. "That sounds painful." "And where are they extracting us to?" Piper asked. Jason watched as the chariot landed on the far end of the skywalk. The flying horses tucked in their wings and cantered nervously across the glass, as if they sensed it was near breaking. Two teenagers stood in the chariot-a tall blond girl maybe a little older than Jason, and a bulky dude with a shaved head and a face like a pile of bricks. They both wore jeans and orange T-shirts, with shields tossed over their backs. The girl leaped off before the chariot had even finished moving. She pulled a knife and ran toward Jason's group while the bulky dude was reining in the horses. "Where is he?" the girl demanded. Her gray eyes were fierce and a little startling. "Where's who?" Jason asked. She frowned like his answer was unacceptable. Then she turned to Leo and Piper. "What about Gleeson? Where is your protector, Gleeson Hedge?" The coach's first name was Gleeson? Jason might've laughed if the morning hadn't been quite so weird and scary. Gleeson Hedge: football coach, goat man, protector of demigods. Sure. Why not? Leo cleared his throat. "He got taken by some _ tornado things." "Venti," Jason said. "Storm spirits." The blond girl arched an eyebrow. "You mean anemoi thuellai? That's the Greek term. Who are you, and what happened?" Jason did his best to explain, though it was hard to meet those intense gray eyes. About halfway through the story, the other guy from the chariot came over. He stood there glaring at them, his arms crossed. He had a tattoo of a rainbow on his biceps, which seemed a little unusual. When Jason had finished his story, the blond girl didn't look satisfied. "No, no, no! She told me he would be here. She told me if I came here, I'd find the answer." "Annabeth," the bald guy grunted. "Check it out." He pointed at Jason's feet. Jason hadn't thought much about it, but he was still missing his left shoe, which had been blown off by the lightning. His bare foot felt okay, but it looked like a lump of charcoal. "The guy with one shoe," said the bald dude. "He's the answer." "No, Butch," the girl insisted. "He can't be. I was tricked." She glared at the sky as though it had done something wrong. "What do you want from me?" she screamed. "What have you done with him?" The skywalk shuddered, and the horses whinnied urgently. "Annabeth," said the bald dude, Butch, "we gotta leave. Let's get these three to camp and figure it out there. Those storm spirits might come back." She fumed for a moment. "Fine." She fixed Jason with a resentful look. "We'll settle this later." She turned on her heel and marched toward the chariot. Piper shook her head. "What's h e r problem? What's going on?" "Seriously," Leo agreed. "We have to get you out of here," Butch said. "I'll explain on the way." "I'm not going anywhere with her." Jason gestured toward the blonde. "She looks like she wants to kill me." Butch hesitated. "Annabeth's okay. You gotta cut her some slack. She had a vision telling her to come here, to find a guy with one shoe. That was supposed to be the answer to her problem." "What problem?" Piper asked. "She's been looking for one of our campers, who's been missing three days," Butch said. "She's going out of her mind with worry. She hoped he'd be here." "Who?" Jason asked. "Her boyfriend," Butch said. "A guy named Percy Jackson." AFTER A MORNING OF STORM SPIRIT'S, goat men, and flying boyfriends, Piper should've been losing her mind. Instead, all she felt was dread. It's starting, she thought. Just like the dream said. She stood in back of the chariot with Leo and Jason, while the bald guy, Butch, handled the reins, and the blond girl, Annabeth, adjusted a bronze navigation device. They rose over the Grand Canyon and headed east, icy wind ripping straight through Piper's jacket. Behind them, more stormclouds were gathering. The chariot lurched and bumped. It had no seat belts and the back was wide open, so Piper wondered if Jason would catch her again if she fell. That had been the most disturbing part of the morning-not that Jason could fly, but that he'd held her in his arms and yet didn't know who she was. All semester she'd worked on a relationship, trying to get Jason to notice her as more than a friend. Finally she'd gotten the big dope to kiss her. The last few weeks had been the best of her life. And then, three nights ago, the dream had ruined everything-that horrible voice, giving her horrible news. She hadn't told anyone about it, not even Jason. Now she didn't even have him. It was like someone had wiped his memory, and she was stuck in the worst "do over" of all time. She wanted to scream. Jason stood right next to her: those sky blue eyes, close-cropped blond hair, that cute little scar on his upper lip. His face was kind and gentle, but always a little sad. And he just stared at the horizon, not even noticing her. Meanwhile, Leo was being annoying, as usual. "This is so cool!" He spit a pegasus feather out of his mouth. "Where are we going?" "A safe place," Annabeth said. "The only safe place for kids like us. Camp Half-Blood." "Half-Blood?" Piper was immediately on guard. She hated that word. She'd been called a half-blood too many times-half Cherokee, half white-and it was never a compliment. "Is that some kind of bad joke?" "She means we're demigods," Jason said. "Half god, half mortal." Annabeth looked back. "You seem to know a lot, Jason. But, yes, demigods. My mom is Athena, goddess of wisdom. Butch here is the son of Iris, the rainbow goddess." Leo choked. "Your mom is a rainbow goddess?" "Got a problem with that?" Butch said. "No, no," Leo said. "Rainbows. Very macho." "Butch is our best equestrian," Annabeth said. "He gets along great with the pegasi." "Rainbows, ponies," Leo muttered. "I'm gonna toss you off this chariot," Butch warned. "Demigods," Piper said. "You mean you think you're _ you think we're-" Lightning flashed. The chariot shuddered, and Jason yelled, "Left wheel's on fire!" Piper stepped back. Sure enough, the wheel was burning, white flames lapping up the side of the chariot. The wind roared. Piper glanced behind them and sawdark shapes forming in the clouds, more storm spirits spiraling toward the chariot-except these looked more like horses than angels. She started to say, "Why are they-" "Anemoi come in different shapes," Annabeth said. "Sometimes human, sometimes stallions, depending on howchaotic they are. Hold on. This is going to get rough." Butch flicked the reins. The pegasi put on a burst of speed, and the chariot blurred. Piper's stomach crawled into her throat. Her vision went black, and when it came back to normal, they were in a totally different place. A cold gray ocean stretched out to the left. Snow-covered fields, roads, and forests spread to the right. Directly belowthem was a green valley, like an island of springtime, rimmed with snowy hills on three sides and water to the north. Piper saw a cluster of buildings like ancient Greek temples, a big blue mansion, ball courts, a lake, and a climbing wall that seemed to be on fire. But before she could really process all she was seeing, their wheels came off and the chariot dropped out of the sky. Annabeth and Butch tried to maintain control. The pegasi labored to hold the chariot in a flight pattern, but they seemed exhausted from their burst of speed, and bearing the chariot and the weight of five people was just too much. "The lake!" Annabeth yelled. "Aim for the lake!" Piper remembered something her dad had once told her, about hitting water from up high being as bad as hitting cement. And then-BOOM. The biggest shock was the cold. She was underwater, so disoriented that she didn't know which way was up. She just had time to think: This would be a stupid way to die.Then faces appeared in the green murk-girls with long black hair and glowing yellow eyes. They smiled at her, grabbed her shoulders, and hauled her up. They tossed her, gasping and shivering, onto the shore. Nearby, Butch stood in the lake, cutting the wrecked harnesses off the pegasi. Fortunately, the horses looked okay, but they were flapping their wings and splashing water everywhere. Jason, Leo, and Annabeth were already on shore, surrounded by kids giving them blankets and asking questions. Somebody took Piper by the arms and helped her stand. Apparently kids fell into the lake a lot, because a detail of campers ran up with big bronze leaf blower-looking things and blasted Piper with hot air; and in about two seconds her clothes were dry. There were at least twenty campers milling around-the youngest maybe nine, the oldest college age, eighteen or nineteen-and all of them had orange T-shirts like Annabeth's. Piper looked back at the water and saw those strange girls just below the surface, their hair floating in the current. They waved like, toodle-oo, and disappeared into the depths. A second later the wreckage of the chariot was tossed from the lake and landed nearby with a wet crunch. "Annabeth!" A guy with a bow and quiver on his back pushed through the crowd. "I said you could borrowthe chariot, not destroy it!" "Will, I'm sorry," Annabeth sighed. "I'll get it fixed, I promise. " Will scowled at his broken chariot. Then he sized up Piper, Leo, and Jason. "These are the ones? Way older than thirteen. Why haven't they been claimed already?" "Claimed?" Leo asked. Before Annabeth could explain, Will said, "Any sign of Percy?" "No," Annabeth admitted. The campers muttered. Piper had no idea who this guy Percy was, but his disappearance seemed to be a big deal. Another girl stepped forward-tall, Asian, dark hair in ringlets, plenty of jewelry, and perfect makeup. Somehow she managed to make jeans and an orange T-shirt look glamorous. She glanced at Leo, fixed her eyes on Jason like he might be worthy of her attention, then curled her lip at Piper as if she were a week-old burrito that had just been pulled out of a Dumpster. Piper knew this girl's type. She'd dealt with a lot of girls like this at Wilderness School and every other stupid school her father had sent her to. Piper knew instantly they were going to be enemies. "Well," the girl said, "I hope they're worth the trouble." Leo snorted. "Gee, thanks. What are we, your new pets?" "No kidding," Jason said. "How about some answers before you start judging us-like, what is this place, why are we here, how long do we have to stay?" Piper had the same questions, but a wave of anxiety washed over her. Worth the trouble. If they only knew about her dream. They had no idea_ "Jason," Annabeth said, "I promise we'll answer your questions. And Drew"-she frowned at the glamour girl-"all demigods are worth saving. But I'll admit, the trip didn't accomplish what I hoped." "Hey," Piper said, "we didn't ask to be brought here." Drew sniffed. "And nobodywants you, hon. Does your hair always look like a dead badger?" Piper stepped forward, ready to smack her, but Annabeth said, "Piper, stop." Piper did. She wasn't a bit scared of Drew, but Annabeth didn't seem like somebody she wanted for an enemy. "We need to make our new arrivals feel welcome," Annabeth said, with another pointed look at Drew. "We'll assign them each a guide, give them a tour of camp. Hopefully by the campfire tonight, they'll be claimed." "Would somebody tell me what claimed means?" Piper asked. Suddenly there was a collective gasp. The campers backed away. At first Piper thought she'd done something wrong. Then she realized their faces were bathed in a strange red light, as if someone had lit a torch behind her. She turned and almost forgot how to breathe. Floating over Leo's head was a blazing holographic image -a fiery hammer. "That," Annabeth said, "is claiming." "What'd I do?" Leo backed toward the lake. Then he glanced up and yelped. "Is my hair on fire?" He ducked, but the symbol followed him, bobbing and weaving so it looked like he was trying to write something in flames with his head. "This can't be good," Butch muttered. "The curse-" "Butch, shut up," Annabeth said. "Leo, you've just been claimed-" "By a god," Jason interrupted. "That's the symbol of Vulcan, isn't it?" All eyes turned to him. "Jason," Annabeth said carefully, "how did you know that?" "I'm not sure." "Vulcan?" Leo demanded. "I don't even LIKE Star Trek. What are you talking about?" "Vulcan is the Roman name for Hephaestus," Annabeth said, "the god of blacksmiths and fire." The fiery hammer faded, but Leo kept swatting the air like he was afraid it was following him. "The god of what? Who?" Annabeth turned to the guy with the bow. "Will, would you take Leo, give him a tour? Introduce him to his bunk-mates in Cabin Nine." "Sure,Annabeth." "What's Cabin Nine?" Leo asked. "And I'm not a Vulcan!" "Come on, Mr. Spock, I'll explain everything." Will put a hand on his shoulder and steered him off toward the cabins. Annabeth turned her attention back to Jason. Usually Piper didn't like it when other girls checked out her boyfriend, but Annabeth didn't seem to care that he was a good-looking guy. She studied him more like he was a complicated blueprint. Finally she said, "Hold out your arm." Piper saw what she was looking at, and her eyes widened. Jason had taken off his windbreaker after his dip in the lake, leaving his arms bare, and on the inside of his right forearm was a tattoo. How had Piper never noticed it before? She'd looked at Jason's arms a million times. The tattoo couldn't have just appeared, but it was darkly etched, impossible to miss: a dozen straight lines like a bar code, and over that an eagle with the letters spqr. "I've never seen marks like this," Annabeth said. "Where did you get them?" Jason shook his head. "I'm getting really tired of saying this, but I don't know." The other campers pushed forward, trying to get a look at Jason's tattoo. The marks seemed to bother them a lot -almost like a declaration of war. "They look burned into your skin," Annabeth noticed. "They were," Jason said. Then he winced as if his head was aching. "Imean _ I think so. I don't remember." No one said anything. It was clear the campers sawAnnabeth as the leader. They were waiting for her verdict. "He needs to go straight to Chiron," Annabeth decided. "Drew, would you-" "Absolutely." Drew laced her arm through Jason's. "This way, sweetie. I'll introduce you to our director. He's _ an interesting guy." She flashed Piper a smug look and led Jason toward the big blue house on the hill. The crowd began to disperse, until only Annabeth and Piper were left. "Who's Chiron?" Piper asked. "Is Jason in some kind of trouble?" Annabeth hesitated. "Good question, Piper. Come on, I'll give you a tour. We need to talk." PIPERSOONREALIZEDANNABETH'SHEARTwasn't in the tour. She talked about all this amazing stuff the camp offered -magic archery, pegasus riding, the lava wall, fighting monsters -but she showed no excitement, as if her mind were elsewhere. She pointed out the open-air dining pavilion that overlooked Long Island Sound. (Yes, Long Island, New York; they'd traveled that far on the chariot.) Annabeth explained howCamp Half-Blood was mostly a summer camp, but some kids stayed here year-round, and they'd added so many campers it was always crowded now, even in winter. Piper wondered who ran the camp, and how they'd known Piper and her friends belonged here. She wondered if she'd have to stay full-time, or if she'd be any good at the activities. Could you flunk out of monster fighting? A million questions bubbled in her head, but given Annabeth's mood, she decided to keep quiet. As they climbed a hill at the edge of camp, Piper turned and got an amazing view of the valley-a big stretch of woods to the northwest, a beautiful beach, the creek, the canoe lake, lush green fields, and the whole layout of the cabins-a bizarre assortment of buildings arranged like a Greek omega, _, with a loop of cabins around a central green, and two wings sticking out the bottom on either side. Piper counted twenty cabins in all. One glowed golden, another silver. One had grass on the roof. Another was bright red with barbed wire trenches. One cabin was black with fiery green torches out front. All of it seemed like a different world from the snowy hills and fields outside. "The valley is protected from mortal eyes," Annabeth said. "As you can see, the weather is controlled, too. Each cabin represents a Greek god-a place for that god's children to live." She looked at Piper like she was trying to judge how Piper was handling the news. "You're saying Mom was a goddess." Annabeth nodded. "You're taking this awfully calmly." Piper couldn't tell her why. She couldn't admit that this just confirmed some weird feelings she'd had for years, arguments she'd had with her father about why there were no photos of Mom in the house, and why Dad would never tell her exactly how or why her mom had left them. But mostly, the dream had warned her this was coming. Soon they will find you, demigod, that voice had rumbled. When they do, follow our directions. Cooperate, and your father might live. Piper took a shaky breath. "I guess after this morning, it's a little easier to believe. So who's my mom?" "We should know soon," Annabeth said. "You're what -fifteen? Gods are supposed to claim you when you're thirteen. That was the deal." "The deal?" "They made a promise last summer _ well, long story_but they promised not to ignore their demigod children anymore, to claim them by the time they turn thirteen. Sometimes it takes a little longer, but you saw how fast Leo was claimed once he got here. Should happen for you soon. Tonight at the campfire, I bet we'll get a sign." Piper wondered if she'd have a big flaming hammer over her head, or with her luck, something even more embarrassing. A flaming wombat, maybe. Whoever her mother was, Piper had no reason to think she'd be proud to claim a kleptomaniac daughter with massive problems. "Why thirteen? " "The older you get," Annabeth said, "the more monsters notice you, try to kill you. 'Round thirteen is usually when it starts. That's why we send protectors into the schools to find you guys, get you to camp before it's too late." "Like Coach Hedge?" Annabeth nodded. "He's-he was a satyr: half man, half goat. Satyrs work for the camp, finding demigods, protecting them, bringing them in when the time is right." Piper had no trouble believing Coach Hedge was half goat. She'd seen the guy eat. She'd never liked the coach much, but she couldn't believe he'd sacrificed himself to save them. "What happened to him?" she asked. "When we went up into the clouds, did he _ is he gone for good?" "Hard to say." Annabeth's expression was pained. "Stormspirits _ difficult to battle. Even our best weapons, Celestial bronze, will pass right through them unless you can catch themby surprise." "Jason's sword just turned them to dust," Piper remembered. "He was lucky, then. If you hit a monster just right, you can dissolve them, send their essence back to Tartarus." "Tartarus?" "A huge abyss in the Underworld, where the worst monsters come from. Kind of like a bottomless pit of evil. Anyway, once monsters dissolve, it usually takes months, even years before they can re-form again. But since this storm spirit Dylan got away-well, I don't know why he'd keep Hedge alive. Hedge was a protector, though. He knew the risks. Satyrs don't have mortal souls. He'll be reincarnated as a tree or a flower or something." Piper tried to imagine Coach Hedge as a clump of very angry pansies. That made her feel even worse. She gazed at the cabins below, and an uneasy feeling settled over her. Hedge had died to get her here safely. Her mom's cabin was down there somewhere, which meant she had brothers and sisters, more people she'd have to betray. Do what we tell you, the voice had said. Or the consequences will be painful. She tucked her hands under her arms, trying to stop them from shaking. "It'll be okay," Annabeth promised. "You have friends here. We've all been through a lot of weird stuff. We know what you're going through." I doubt that, Piper thought. "I've been kicked out of five different schools the past five years," she said. "My dad's running out of places to put me." "Only five?" Annabeth didn't sound like she was teasing. "Piper, we've all been labeled troublemakers. I ran away fromhome when Iwas seven." "Seriously?" "Oh, yeah. Most of us are diagnosed with attention deficit disorder or dyslexia, or both-" "Leo's ADHD," Piper said. "Right. It's because we're hardwired for battle. Restless, impulsive-we don't fit in with regular kids. You should hear how much trouble Percy-" Her face darkened. "Anyway, demigods get a bad rep. How'd you get in trouble?" Usually when someone asked that question, Piper started a fight, or changed the subject, or caused some kind of distraction. But for some reason she found herself telling the truth. "I steal stuff," she said. "Well, not really steal _" "Is your family poor?" Piper laughed bitterly. "Not even. I did it _ I don't knowwhy. For attention, I guess. My dad never had time for me unless I got in trouble." Annabeth nodded. "I can relate. But you said you didn't really steal? What do you mean?" "Well _ nobody ever believes me. The police, teachers -even the people I took stuff from: they're so embarrassed, they'll deny what happened. But the truth is, I don't steal anything. I just ask people for things. And they give me stuff. Even a BMW convertible. I just asked. And the dealer said, 'Sure. Take it.' Later, he realized what he'd done, I guess. Then the police came after me." Piper waited. She was used to people calling her a liar, but when she looked up,Annabeth just nodded. "Interesting. If your dad were the god, I'd say you're a child of Hermes, god of thieves. He can be pretty convincing. But your dad is mortal_" "Very," Piper agreed. Annabeth shook her head, apparently mystified. "I don't know, then. With luck, your mom will claim you tonight." Piper almost hoped it wouldn't happen. If her mom were a goddess, would she know about that dream? Would she know what Piper had been asked to do? Piper wondered if Olympian gods ever blasted their kids with lightning for being evil, or grounded them in the Underworld. Annabeth was studying her. Piper decided she was going to have to be careful what she said from now on.Annabeth was obviously pretty smart. If anyone could figure out Piper's secret _ "Come on," Annabeth said at last. "There's something else I need to check." They hiked a little farther until they reached a cave near the top of the hill. Bones and old swords littered the ground. Torches flanked the entrance, which was covered in a velvet curtain embroidered with snakes. It looked like the set for some kind of twisted puppet show. "What's in there?" Piper asked. Annabeth poked her head inside, then sighed and closed the curtains. "Nothing, right now. A friend's place. I've been expecting her for a few days, but so far, nothing." "Your friend lives in a cave?" Annabeth almost managed a smile. "Actually, her family has a luxury condo in Queens, and she goes to a finishing school in Connecticut. But when she's here at camp, yeah, she lives in the cave. She's our oracle, tells the future. I was hoping she could help me-" "Find Percy," Piper guessed. All the energy drained out of Annabeth, like she'd been holding it together for as long as she could. She sat down on a rock, and her expression was so full of pain, Piper felt like a voyeur. She forced herself to look away. Her eyes drifted to the crest of the hill, where a single pine tree dominated the skyline. Something glittered in its lowest branch-like a fuzzy gold bath mat. No _ not a bath mat. It was a sheep's fleece. Okay, Piper thought. Greek camp. They've got a replica of the Golden Fleece. Then she noticed the base of the tree.At first she thought it was wrapped in a pile of massive purple cables. But the cables had reptilian scales, clawed feet, and a snakelike head with yellow eyes and smoking nostrils. "That's-a dragon," she stammered. "That's the actual Golden Fleece?" Annabeth nodded, but it was clear she wasn't really listening. Her shoulders drooped. She rubbed her face and took a shaky breath. "Sorry.A little tired." "You look ready to drop," Piper said. "How long have been searching for your boyfriend?" "Three days, six hours, and about twelve minutes." "And you've got no idea what happened to him?" Annabeth shook her head miserably. "We were so excited because we both started winter break early. We met up at camp on Tuesday, figured we had three weeks together. It was going to be great. Then after the campfire, he-he kissed me good night, went back to his cabin, and in the morning, he was gone. We searched the whole camp. We contacted his mom. We've tried to reach him every way we know how. Nothing. He just disappeared." Piper was thinking: Three days ago. The same night she'd had her dream. "How long were you guys together?" "Since August," Annabeth said. "August eighteenth." "Almost exactly when I met Jason," Piper said. "But we've only been together a few weeks." Annabeth winced. "Piper _ about that. Maybe you should sit down." Piper knew where this was going. Panic started building inside her, like her lungs were filling with water. "Look, I knowJason thought-he thought he just appeared at our school today. But that's not true. I've known him for four months." "Piper," Annabeth said sadly. "It's the Mist." "Missed _ what?" "M-i-s-t. It's a kind of veil separating the mortal world fromthe magic world. Mortal minds-they can't process strange stuff like gods and monsters, so the Mist bends reality. It makes mortals see things in a way they can understand -like their eyes might just skip over this valley completely, or they might look at that dragon and see a pile of cables." Piper swallowed. "No. You said yourself I'm not a regular mortal. I'm a demigod." "Even demigods can be affected. I've seen it lots of times. Monsters infiltrate some place like a school, pass themselves off as human, and everyone thinks they remember that person. They believe he's always been around. The Mist can change memories, even create memories of things that never happened-" "But Jason's not a monster!" Piper insisted. "He's a human guy, or demigod, or whatever you want to call him. My memories aren't fake. They're so real. The time we set Coach Hedge's pants on fire. The time Jason and I watched a meteor shower on the dorm roof and I finally got the stupid guy to kiss me...." She found herself rambling, telling Annabeth about her whole semester at Wilderness School. She'd liked Jason fromthe first week they'd met. He was so nice to her, and so patient, he could even put up with hyperactive Leo and his stupid jokes. He'd accepted her for herself and didn't judge her because of the stupid things she'd done. They'd spent hours talking, looking at the stars, and eventually-finally-holding hands.All that couldn't be fake. Annabeth pursed her lips. "Piper, your memories are a lot sharper than most. I'll admit that, and I don't know why that is. But if you know him so well-" "I do!" "Then where is he from?" Piper felt like she'd been hit between the eyes. "He must have told me, but-" "Did you ever notice his tattoo before today? Did he ever tell you anything about his parents, or his friends, or his last school?" "I-I don't know, but-" "Piper, what's his last name?" Her mind went blank. She didn't know Jason's last name. How could that be? She started to cry. She felt like a total fool, but she sat down on the rock next to Annabeth and just fell to pieces. It was too much. Did everything that was good in her stupid, miserable life have to be taken away? Yes, the dream had told her. Yes, unless you do exactly what we say. "Hey," Annabeth said. "We'll figure it out. Jason's here now. Who knows? Maybe it'll work out with you guys for real." Not likely, Piper thought. Not if the dream had told her the truth. But she couldn't say that. She brushed a tear from her cheek. "You brought me up here so no one would see me blubbering, huh?" Annabeth shrugged. "I figured it would be hard for you. I know what it's like to lose your boyfriend." "But I still can't believe _ I knowwe had something. And now it's just gone, like he doesn't even recognize me. If he really did just show up today, then why? How'd he get there? Why can't he remember anything?" "Good questions," Annabeth said. "Hopefully Chiron can figure that out. But for now, we need to get you settled. You ready to go back down?" Piper gazed at the crazy assortment of cabins in the valley. Her new home, a family who supposedly understood her-but soon they'd be just another bunch of people she'd disappointed, just another place she'd been kicked out of. You'll betray them for us, the voice had warned. Or you'll lose everything. She didn't have a choice. "Yeah," she lied. "I'm ready." On the central green, a group of campers was playing basketball. They were incredible shots. Nothing bounced off the rim. Three-pointers went in automatically. "Apollo's cabin," Annabeth explained. "Bunch of showoffs with missile weapons-arrows, basketballs." They walked past a central fire pit, where two guys were hacking at each other with swords. "Real blades?" Piper noted. "Isn't that dangerous?" "That's sort of the point," Annabeth said. "Uh, sorry. Bad pun. That's my cabin over there. Number Six." She nodded to a gray building with a carved owl over the door. Through the open doorway, Piper could see bookshelves, weapon displays, and one of those computerized SMART Boards they have in classrooms. Two girls were drawing a map that looked like a battle diagram. "Speaking of blades," Annabeth said, "come here." She led Piper around the side of the cabin, to a big metal shed that looked like it was meant for gardening tools. Annabeth unlocked it, and inside were not gardening tools, unless you wanted to make war on your tomato plants. The shed was lined with all sorts of weapons-from swords to spears to clubs like Coach Hedge's. "Every demigod needs a weapon," Annabeth said. "Hephaestus makes the best, but we have a pretty good selection, too. Athena's all about strategy-matching the right weapon to the right person. Let's see _" Piper didn't feel much like shopping for deadly objects, but she knewAnnabeth was trying to do something nice for her. Annabeth handed her a massive sword, which Piper could hardly lift. "No," they both said at once. Annabeth rummaged a little farther in the shed and brought out something else. "A shotgun?" Piper asked. "Mossberg 500." Annabeth checked the pump action like it was no big deal. "Don't worry. It doesn't hurt humans. It's modified to shoot Celestial bronze, so it only kills monsters." "Um, I don't think that's my style," Piper said. "Mmm, yeah," Annabeth agreed. "Too flashy." She put the shotgun back and started poking through a She put the shotgun back and started poking through a rack of crossbows when something in the corner of the shed caught Piper's eye. "What is that?" she said. "A knife?" Annabeth dug it out and blew the dust off the scabbard. It looked like it hadn't seen the light of day in centuries. "I don't know, Piper." Annabeth sounded uneasy. "I don't think you want this one. Swords are usually better." "You use a knife." Piper pointed to the one strapped to Annabeth's belt. "Yeah, but _" Annabeth shrugged. "Well, take a look if you want." The sheath was worn black leather, bound in bronze. Nothing fancy, nothing flashy. The polished wood handle fit beautifully in Piper's hand. When she unsheathed it, she found a triangular blade eighteen inches long-bronze gleaming like it had been polished yesterday. The edges were deadly sharp. Her reflection in the blade caught her by surprise. She looked older, more serious, not as scared as she felt. "It suits you," Annabeth admitted. "That kind of blade is called a parazonium. It was mostly ceremonial, carried by highranking officers in the Greek armies. It showed you were a person of power and wealth, but in a fight, it could protect you just fine." "I like it," Piper said. "Why didn't you think it was right?" Annabeth exhaled. "That blade has a long story. Most people would be afraid to claim it. Its first owner _ well, things didn't turn out too well for her. Her name was Helen." Piper let that sink in. "Wait, you mean the Helen? Helen of Troy?" Annabeth nodded. Suddenly Piper felt like she should be handling the dagger with surgical gloves. "And it's just sitting in your toolshed?" "We're surrounded byAncient Greek stuff," Annabeth said. "This isn't a museum. Weapons like that-they're meant to be used. They're our heritage as demigods. That was a wedding present from Menelaus, Helen's first husband. She named the dagger Katoptris." "Meaning?" "Mirror," Annabeth said. "Looking glass. Probably because that's the only thing Helen used it for. I don't think it's ever seen battle." Piper looked at the blade again. For a moment, her own image stared up at her, but then the reflection changed. She saw flames, and a grotesque face like something carved frombedrock. She heard the same laughter as in her dream. She saw her dad in chains, tied to a post in front of a roaring bonfire. She dropped the blade. "Piper?" Annabeth shouted to the Apollo kids on the court, "Medic! I need some help over here!" "No, it's-it's okay," Piper managed. "You sure?" "Yeah. I just _" She had to control herself. With trembling fingers, she picked up the dagger. "I just got overwhelmed. So much happening today. But _ I want to keep the dagger, if that's okay." Annabeth hesitated. Then she waved off the Apollo kids. "Okay, if you're sure. You turned really pale, there. I thought you were having a seizure or something." "I'm fine," Piper promised, though her heart was still racing. "Is there _ um, a phone at camp? Can I call my dad?" Annabeth's gray eyes were almost as unnerving as the dagger blade. She seemed to be calculating a million possibilities, trying to read Piper's thoughts. "We aren't allowed phones," she said. "Most demigods, if they use a cell phone, it's like sending up a signal, letting monsters know where you are. But _ I've got one." She slipped it out of her pocket. "Kind of against the rules, but if it can be our secret _" Piper took it gratefully, trying not to let her hands shake. She stepped away from Annabeth and turned to face the commons area. She called her dad's private line, even though she knewwhat would happen. Voice mail. She'd been trying for three days, ever since the dream. Wilderness School only allowed phone privileges once a day, but she'd called every evening, and gotten nowhere. Reluctantly she dialed the other number. Her dad's personal assistant answered immediately. "Mr. McLean's office." "Jane," Piper said, gritting her teeth. "Where's my dad?" Jane was silent for a moment, probably wondering if she could get away with hanging up. "Piper, I thought you weren't supposed to call from school." "Maybe I'm not at school," Piper said. "Maybe I ran away to live among the woodland creatures." "Mmm." Jane didn't sound concerned. "Well, I'll tell him you called." "Where is he?" "Out." "You don't know, do you?" Piper lowered her voice, hoping Annabeth was too nice to eavesdrop. "When are you going to call the police, Jane? He could be in trouble." "Piper, we are not going to turn this into a media circus. I'm sure he's fine. He does take off occasionally. He always comes back." "So it's true. You don't know-" "I have to go, Piper," Jane snapped. "Enjoy school." The line went dead. Piper cursed. She walked back to Annabeth and handed her the phone. "No luck?" Annabeth asked. Piper didn't answer. She didn't trust herself not to start crying again. Annabeth glanced at the phone display and hesitated. "Your last name is McLean? Sorry, it's not my business. But that sounds really familiar." "Common name." "Yeah, I guess. What does your dad do?" "He's got a degree in the arts," Piper said automatically. "He's a Cherokee artist." Her standard response. Not a lie, just not the whole truth. Most people, when they heard that, figured her dad sold Indian souvenirs at a roadside stand on a reservation. Sitting Bull bobble-heads, wampum necklaces, Big Chief tablets-that kind of thing. "Oh." Annabeth didn't look convinced, but she put the phone away. "You feeling okay? Want to keep going?" Piper fastened her new dagger to her belt and promised herself that later, when she was alone, she'd figure out how it worked. "Sure," she said. "Iwant to see everything." All the cabins were cool, but none of them struck Piper as hers. No burning signs-wombats or otherwise-appeared over her head. Cabin Eight was entirely silver and glowed like moonlight. "Artemis?" Piper guessed. "You know Greek mythology," Annabeth said. "I did some reading when my dad was working on a project last year." "I thought he did Cherokee art." Piper bit back a curse. "Oh, right. But-you know, he does other stuff too." Piper thought she'd blown it: McLean, Greek mythology. Thankfully,Annabeth didn't seem to make the connection. "Anyway," Annabeth continued, "Artemis is goddess of the moon, goddess of hunting. But no campers. Artemis was an eternal maiden, so she doesn't have any kids." "Oh." That kind of bummed Piper out. She'd always liked the stories of Artemis, and figured she would make a cool mom. "Well, there a r e the Hunters of Artemis," Annabeth amended. "They visit sometimes. They're not the children of Artemis, but they're her handmaidens-this band of immortal teenage girls who adventure together and hunt monsters and stuff." Piper perked up. "That sounds cool. They get to be immortal?" "Unless they die in combat, or break their vows. Did I mention they have to swear off boys? No dating-ever. For eternity." "Oh," Piper said. "Never mind." Annabeth laughed. For a moment she looked almost happy, and Piper thought she'd be a cool friend to hang out with in better times. Forget it, Piper reminded herself. You're not going to make any friends here. Not once they find out. They passed the next cabin, Number Ten, which was decorated like a Barbie house with lace curtains, a pink door, and potted carnations in the windows. They walked by the doorway, and the smell of perfume almost made Piper gag. "Gah, is that where supermodels go to die?" Annabeth smirked. "Aphrodite's cabin. Goddess of love. Drew is the head counselor." "Figures," Piper grumbled. "They're not all bad," Annabeth said. "The last head counselor we had was great." "What happened to her?" Annabeth's expression darkened. "We should keep moving." They looked at the other cabins, but Piper just got more depressed. She wondered if she could be the daughter of Demeter, the farming goddess. Then again, Piper killed every plant she ever touched. Athena was cool. Or maybe Hecate, the magic goddess. But it didn't really matter. Even here, where everyone was supposed to find a lost parent, she knewshe would still end up the unwanted kid. She was not looking forward to the campfire tonight. "We started with the twelve Olympian gods," Annabeth explained. "Male gods on the left, female on the right. Then last year, we added a whole bunch of new cabins for the other gods who didn't have thrones on Olympus-Hecate, Hades, Iris-" "What are the two big ones on the end?" Piper asked. Annabeth frowned. "Zeus and Hera. King and queen of the gods." Piper headed that way, and Annabeth followed, though she didn't act very excited. The Zeus cabin reminded Piper of a bank. It was white marble with big columns out front and polished bronze doors emblazoned with lightning bolts. Hera's cabin was smaller but done in the same style, except the doors were carved with peacock feather designs, shimmering in different colors. Unlike the other cabins, which were all noisy and open and full of activity, the Zeus and Hera cabins looked closed and silent. "Are they empty?" Piper asked. Annabeth nodded. "Zeus went a long time without having any children. Well, mostly. Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades, the eldest brothers among the gods-they're called the Big Three. Their kids are really powerful, really dangerous. For the last seventy years or so, they tried to avoid having demigod children." "Tried to avoid it?" "Sometimes they _ um, cheated. I've got a friend, Thalia Grace, who's the daughter of Zeus. But she gave up camp life and became a Hunter of Artemis. My boyfriend, Percy, he's a son of Poseidon. And there's a kid who shows up sometimes, Nico-son of Hades. Except for them, there are no demigod children of the Big Three gods.At least, not that we know of." "And Hera?" Piper looked at the peacock-decorated doors. The cabin bothered her, though she wasn't sure why. "Goddess of marriage." Annabeth's tone was carefully controlled, like she was trying to avoid cursing. "She doesn't have kids with anyone but Zeus. So, yeah, no demigods. The cabin's just honorary." "You don't like her," Piper noticed. "We have a long history," Annabeth admitted. "I thought we'd made peace, but when Percy disappeared _ I got this weird dream vision from her." "Telling you to come get us," Piper said. "But you thought Percy would be there." "It's probably better I don't talk about it," Annabeth said. "I've got nothing good to say about Hera right now." Piper looked down the base of the doors. "So who goes in here?" "No one. The cabin is just honorary, like I said. No one goes in." "Someone does." Piper pointed at a footprint on the dusty threshold. On instinct, she pushed the doors and they swung open easily. Annabeth stepped back. "Um, Piper, I don't think we should-" "We're supposed to do dangerous stuff, right?" And Piper walked inside. Hera's cabin was not someplace Piper would want to live. It was as cold as a freezer, with a circle of white columns around a central statue of the goddess, ten feet tall, seated on a throne in flowing golden robes. Piper had always thought of Greek statues as white with blank eyes, but this one was brightly painted so it looked almost human-except huge. Hera's piercing eyes seemed to follow Piper. At the goddess's feet, a fire burned in a bronze brazier. Piper wondered who tended it if the cabin was always empty. A stone hawk sat on Hera's shoulder, and in her hand was a staff topped with a lotus flower. The goddess's hair was done in black plaits. Her face smiled, but the eyes were cold and calculating, as if she were saying: Mother knows best. Nowdon't cross me or I will have to step on you. There was nothing else in the cabin-no beds, no furniture, no bathroom, no windows, nothing that anyone could actually use to live. For a goddess of home and marriage, Hera's place reminded Piper of a tomb. No, this wasn't her mom. At least Piper was sure of that. She hadn't come in here because she felt a good connection, but because her sense of dread was stronger here. Her dream-that horrible ultimatum she'd been handed-had something to do with this cabin. She froze. They weren't alone. Behind the statue, at a little altar in the back, stood a figure covered in a black shawl. Only her hands were visible, palms up. She seemed to be chanting something like a spell or a prayer. Annabeth gasped. "Rachel?" The other girl turned. She dropped her shawl, revealing a mane of curly red hair and a freckled face that didn't go with the seriousness of the cabin or the black shawl at all. She looked about seventeen, a totally normal teen in a green blouse and tattered jeans covered with marker doodles. Despite the cold floor, she was barefoot. "Hey!" She ran to give Annabeth a hug. "I'm so sorry! I came as fast as I could." They talked for a few minutes about Annabeth's boyfriend and how there was no news, et cetera, until finally Annabeth remembered Piper, who was standing there feeling uncomfortable. "I'm being rude," Annabeth apologized. "Rachel, this is Piper, one of the half-bloods we rescued today. Piper, this is Rachel Elizabeth Dare, our oracle." "The friend who lives in the cave," Piper guessed. Rachel grinned. "That's me." "So you're an oracle?" Piper asked. "You can tell the future?" "More like the future mugs me from time to time," Rachel said. "I speak prophecies. The oracle's spirit kind of hijacks me every once in a while and speaks important stuff that doesn't make any sense to anybody. But yeah, the prophecies tell the future." "Oh." Piper shifted from foot to foot. "That's cool." Rachel laughed. "Don't worry. Everybody finds it a little creepy. Even me. But usually I'm harmless." "You're a demigod?" "Nope," Rachel said. "Just mortal." "Then what are you _" Piper waved her hand around the room. Rachel's smile faded. She glanced atAnnabeth, then back at Piper. "Just a hunch. Something about this cabin and Percy's disappearance. They're connected somehow. I've learned to follow my hunches, especially the last month, since the gods went silent." "Went silent?" Piper asked. Rachel frowned atAnnabeth. "You haven't told her yet?" "I was getting to that," Annabeth said. "Piper, for the last month _ well, it's normal for the gods not to talk to their children very much, but usually we can count on some messages now and then. Some of us can even visit Olympus. I spent practically all semester at the Empire State Building." "Excuse me?" "The entrance to Mount Olympus these days." "Oh," Piper said. "Sure, why not?" "Annabeth was redesigning Olympus after it was damaged in the Titan War," Rachel explained. "She's an amazing architect. You should see the salad bar-" "Anyway," Annabeth said, "starting about a month ago, Olympus fell silent. The entrance closed, and no one could get in. Nobody knows why. It's like the gods have sealed themselves off. Even my mom won't answer my prayers, and our camp director, Dionysus, was recalled." "Your camp director was the god of _ wine?" "Yeah, it's a-" "Long story," Piper guessed. "Right. Go on." "That's it, really," Annabeth said. "Demigods still get claimed, but nothing else. No messages. No visits. No sign the gods are even listening. It's like something has happened -something really bad. Then Percy disappeared." "And Jason showed up on our field trip," Piper supplied. "With no memory." "Who's Jason?" Rachel asked. "My-" Piper stopped herself before she could say "boyfriend," but the effort made her chest hurt. "My friend. But Annabeth, you said Hera sent you a dream vision." "Right," Annabeth said. "The first communication from a god in a month, and it's Hera, the least helpful goddess, and she contacts me, her least favorite demigod. She tells me I'll find out what happened to Percy if I go to the Grand Canyon skywalk and look for a guy with one shoe. Instead, I find you guys, and the guy with one shoe is Jason. It doesn't make sense." "Something bad is happening," Rachel agreed. She looked at Piper, and Piper felt an overwhelming desire to tell them about her dream, to confess that she knew what was happening-at least part of the story. And the bad stuff was only beginning. "Guys," she said. "I-I need to-" Before she could continue, Rachel's body stiffened. Her eyes began to glow with a greenish light, and she grabbed Piper by the shoulders. Piper tried to back away, but Rachel's hands were like steel clamps. Free me, she said. But it wasn't Rachel's voice. It sounded like an older woman, speaking from somewhere far away, down a long, echoing pipe. Free me, Piper McLean, or the earth shall swallowus. It must be by the solstice. The room started spinning. Annabeth tried to separate Piper from Rachel, but it was no use. Green smoke enveloped them, and Piper was no longer sure if she was awake or dreaming. The giant statue of the goddess seemed to rise from its throne. It leaned over Piper, its eyes boring into her. The statue's mouth opened, its breath like horribly thick perfume. It spoke in the same echoing voice: Our enemies stir. The fiery one is only the first. Bow to his will, and their king shall rise, dooming us all. FREE ME! Piper's knees buckled, and everything went black. LEO'STOURWASGOINGGREATUNTIL he learned about the dragon. The archer dude, Will Solace, seemed pretty cool. Everything he showed Leo was so amazing, it should've been illegal. Real Greek warships moored at the beach that sometimes had practice fights with flaming arrows and explosives? Sweet! Arts & crafts sessions where you could make sculptures with chain saws and blowtorches? Leo was like, Sign me up! The woods were stocked with dangerous monsters, and no one should ever go in there alone? Nice! And the camp was overflowing with fine-looking girls. Leo didn't quite understand the whole related-to-the-gods business, but he hoped that didn't mean he was cousins with all these ladies. That would suck. At the very least, he wanted to check out those underwater girls in the lake again. They were definitely worth drowning for. Will showed him the cabins, the dining pavilion, and the sword arena. "Do I get a sword?" Leo asked. Will glanced at him like he found the idea disturbing. "You'll probably make your own, seeing as how you're in Cabin Nine." "Yeah, what's up with that? Vulcan?" "Usually we don't call the gods by their Roman names," Will said. "The original names are Greek. Your dad is Hephaestus." "Festus?" Leo had heard somebody say that before, but he was still dismayed. "Sounds like the god of cowboys." "He-phaestus," Will corrected. "God of blacksmiths and fire." Leo had heard that too, but he was trying not to think about it. The god of fire _ seriously? Considering what had happened to his mom, that seemed like a sick joke. "So the flaming hammer over my head," Leo said. "Good thing, or bad thing?" Will took a while to answer. "You were claimed almost immediately. That's usually good." "But that Rainbow Pony dude, Butch-he mentioned a curse." "Ah _ look, it's nothing. Since Cabin Nine's last head counselor died-" "Died? Like, painfully?" "I ought to let your bunkmates tell you about it." "Yeah, where a r e my home dawgs? Shouldn't their counselor be giving me the VIP tour?" "He, um, can't. You'll see why." Will forged ahead before Leo could ask anything else. "Curses and death," Leo said to himself. "This just gets better and better." He was halfway across the green when he spotted his old babysitter. And she was not the kind of person he expected to see at a demigod camp. Leo froze in his tracks. "What's wrong?" Will asked. Tia Callida-Auntie Callida. That's what she'd called herself, but Leo hadn't seen her since he was five years old. She was just standing there, in the shadow of a big white cabin at the end of the green, watching him. She wore her black linen widow's dress, with a black shawl pulled over her hair. Her face hadn't changed-leathery skin, piercing dark eyes. Her withered hands were like claws. She looked ancient, but no different than Leo remembered. "That old lady _" Leo said. "What's she doing here?" Will tried to follow his gaze. "What old lady?" "Dude, the old lady. The one in black. How many old ladies do you see over there?" Will frowned. "I think you've had a long day, Leo. The Mist could still be playing tricks on your mind. How about we head straight to your cabin now?" Leo wanted to protest, but when he looked back toward the big white cabin, Tia Callida was gone. He was sure she'd been there, almost as if thinking about his mom had summoned Callida back from the past. And that wasn't good, because Tia Callida had tried to kill him. "Just messing with you, man." Leo pulled some gears and levers from his pockets and started fiddling with them to calmhis nerves. He couldn't have everybody at camp thinking he was crazy.At least, not crazier than he really was. "Let's go see Cabin Nine," he said. "I'm in the mood for a good curse." From the outside, the Hephaestus cabin looked like an oversize RV with shiny metal walls and metal-slatted windows. The entrance was like a bank vault door, circular and several feet thick. It opened with lots of brass gears turning and hydraulic pistons blowing smoke. Leo whistled. "They got a steampunk theme going on, huh?" Inside, the cabin seemed deserted. Steel bunks were folded against the walls like high-tech Murphy beds. Each had a digital control panel, blinking LED lights, glowing gems, and interlocking gears. Leo figured each camper had his own combination lock to release his bed, and there was probably an alcove behind it with storage, maybe some traps to keep out unwanted visitors. At least, that's the way Leo would've designed it. A fire pole came down from the second floor, even though the cabin didn't appear to have a second floor from the outside. A circular staircase led down into some kind of basement. The walls were lined with every kind of power tool Leo could imagine, plus a huge assortment of knives, swords, and other implements of destruction. A large workbench overflowed with scrap metal-screws, bolts, washers, nails, rivets, and a million other machine parts. Leo had a strong urge to shovel them all into his coat pockets. He loved that kind of stuff. But he'd need a hundred more coats to fit it all. Looking around, he could almost imagine he was back in his mom's machine shop. Not the weapons, maybe-but the tools, the piles of scrap, the smell of grease and metal and hot engines. She would've loved this place. He pushed that thought away. He didn't like painful memories. Keep moving-that was his motto. Don't dwell on things. Don't stay in one place too long. It was the only way to stay ahead of the sadness. He picked a long implement from the wall. "A weed whacker? What's the god of fire want with a weed whacker?" A voice in the shadows said, "You'd be surprised." At the back of the room, one of the bunk beds was occupied. A curtain of dark camouflage material retracted, and Leo could see the guy who'd been invisible a second before. It was hard to tell much about him because he was covered in a body cast. His head was wrapped in gauze except for his face, which was puffy and bruised. He looked like the Pillsbury Doughboy after a beat-down. "I'm Jake Mason," the guy said. "I'd shake your hand, but _" "Yeah," Leo said. "Don't get up." The guy cracked a smile, then winced like it hurt to move his face. Leo wondered what had happened to him, but he was afraid to ask. "Welcome to Cabin Nine," Jake said. "Been almost a year since we had any new kids. I'm head counselor for now." "For now?" Leo asked. Will Solace cleared his throat. "So where is everybody, Jake?" "Down at the forges," Jake said wistfully. "They're working on _ you know, that problem." "Oh." Will changed the subject. "So, you got a spare bed for Leo?" Jake studied Leo, sizing him up. "You believe in curses, Leo? Or ghosts?" I just saw my evil babysitter Tia Callida, Leo thought. She's got to be dead after all these years. And I can't go a day without remembering my mom in that machine shop fire. Don't talk to me about ghosts, doughboy. But aloud, he said, "Ghosts? Pfft. Nah. I'm cool. A stormspirit chucked me down the Grand Canyon this morning, but you know, all in a day's work, right?" Jake nodded. "That's good. Because I'll give you the best bed in the cabin-Beckendorf's." "Whoa, Jake," Will said. "You sure?" Jake called out: "Bunk 1-A, please." The whole cabin rumbled. A circular section of the floor spiraled open like a camera lens, and a full-size bed popped up. The bronze frame had a built-in game station at the footboard, a stereo system in the headboard, a glass-door refrigerator mounted into the base, and a whole bunch of control panels running down the side. Leo jumped right in and lay back with arms behind his head. "I can handle this." "It retracts into a private room below," Jake said. "Oh, heck, yes," Leo said. "See y'all. I'll be down in the Leo Cave. Which button do I press?" "Hold on," Will Solace protested. "You guys have private underground rooms?" Jake probably would've smiled if it didn't hurt so much. "We got lots of secrets, Will. You Apollo guys can't have all the fun. Our campers have been excavating the tunnel systemunder Cabin Nine for almost a century. We still haven't found the end. Anyway, Leo, if you don't mind sleeping in a dead man's bed, it's yours." Suddenly Leo didn't feel like kicking back. He sat up, careful not to touch any of the buttons. "The counselor who died -this was his bed?" "Yeah," Jake said. "Charles Beckendorf." Leo imagined saw blades coming through the mattress, or maybe a grenade sewn inside the pillows. "He didn't, like, die in this bed, did he?" "No," Jake said. "In the Titan War, last summer." "The Titan War," Leo repeated, "which has nothing to do with this very fine bed?" "The Titans," Will said, like Leo was an idiot. "The big powerful guys that ruled the world before the gods. They tried to make a comeback last summer. Their leader, Kronos, built a new palace on top of Mount Tam in California. Their armies came to New York and almost destroyed Mount Olympus. A lot of demigods died trying to stop them." "I'm guessing this wasn't on the news?" Leo said. It seemed like a fair question, but Will shook his head in disbelief. "You didn't hear about Mount St. Helens erupting, or the freak storms across the country, or that building collapsing in St. Louis?" Leo shrugged. Last summer, he'd been on the run fromanother foster home. Then a truancy officer caught him in NewMexico, and the court sentenced him to the nearest correctional facility-the Wilderness School. "Guess I was busy." "Doesn't matter," Jake said. "You were lucky to miss it. The thing is, Beckendorf was one of the first casualties, and ever since then-" "Your cabin's been cursed," Leo guessed. Jake didn't answer. Then again, the dude was in a body cast. That was an answer. Leo started noticing little things that he hadn't seen before-an explosion mark on the wall, a stain on the floor that might've been oil _ or blood. Broken swords and smashed machines kicked into the corners of the room, maybe out of frustration. The place did feel unlucky. Jake sighed halfheartedly. "Well, I should get some sleep. I hope you like it here, Leo. It used to be _ really nice." He closed his eyes, and the camouflage curtain drew itself across the bed. "Come on, Leo," Will said. "I'll take you to the forges." As they were leaving, Leo looked back at his new bed, and he could almost imagine a dead counselor sitting there -another ghost who wasn't going to leave Leo alone. "HOW DIDHEDIE?" LEOASKED. "Imean Beckendorf." Will Solace trudged ahead. "Explosion. Beckendorf and Percy Jackson blew up a cruise ship full of monsters. Beckendorf didn't make it out." There was that name again-Percy Jackson, Annabeth's missing boyfriend. That guy must've been into everything around here, Leo thought. "So Beckendorf was pretty popular?" Leo asked. "I mean -before he blew up?" "He was awesome," Will agreed. "It was hard on the whole camp when he died. Jake-he became head counselor in the middle of the war. Same as I did, actually. Jake did his best, but he never wanted to be leader. He just likes building stuff. Then after the war, things started to go wrong. Cabin Nine's chariots blew up. Their automatons went haywire. Their inventions started to malfunction. It was like a curse, and eventually people started calling it that-the Curse of Cabin Nine. Then Jake had his accident-" "Which had something to do with the problem he mentioned," Leo guessed. "They're working on it," Will said without enthusiasm. "And here we are." The forge looked like a steam-powered locomotive had smashed into the Greek Parthenon and they had fused together. White marble columns lined the soot-stained walls. Chimneys pumped smoke over an elaborate gable carved with a bunch of gods and monsters. The building sat at the edge of a stream, with several waterwheels turning a series of bronze gears. Leo heard machinery grinding inside, fires roaring, and hammers ringing on anvils. They stepped through the doorway, and a dozen guys and girls who'd been working on various projects all froze. The noise died down to the roar of the forge and the click-clickclick of gears and levers. "'Sup, guys," Will said. "This is your new brother, Leo-um, what's your last name?" "Valdez." Leo looked around at the other campers. Was he really related to all of them? His cousins came from some big families, but he'd always just had his mom-until she died. Kids came up and started shaking hands and introducing themselves. Their names blurred together: Shane, Christopher, Nyssa, Harley (yeah, like the motorcycle). Leo knew he'd never keep everybody straight. Too many of them. Too overwhelming. None of them looked like the others-all different face types, skin tone, hair color, height. You'd never think, Hey, look, it's the Hephaestus Bunch! But they all had powerful hands, rough with calluses and stained with engine grease. Even little Harley, who couldn't have been more than eight, looked like he could go six rounds with Chuck Norris without breaking a sweat. And all the kids shared a sad kind of seriousness. Their shoulders slumped like life had beaten them down pretty hard. Several looked like they'd been physically beaten up, too. Leo counted two arm slings, one pair of crutches, an eye patch, six Ace bandages, and about seven thousand Band-Aids. "Well, all right!" Leo said. "I hear this is the party cabin!" Nobody laughed. They all just stared at him. Will Solace patted Leo's shoulder. "I'll leave you guys to get acquainted. Somebody show Leo to dinner when it's time? " "I got it," one of the girls said. Nyssa, Leo remembered. She wore camo pants, a tank top that showed off her buffarms, and a red bandanna over a mop of dark hair. Except for the smiley-face Band-Aid on her chin, she looked like one of those female action heroes, like any second she was going to grab a machine gun and start mowing down evil aliens. "Cool," Leo said. "I always wanted a sister who could beat me up." Nyssa didn't smile. "Come on, joker boy. I'll show you around." * * * Leo was no stranger to workshops. He'd grown up around grease monkeys and power tools. His mom used to joke that his first pacifier was a lug wrench. But he'd never seen any place like the camp forge. One guy was working on a battle-ax. He kept testing the blade on a slab of concrete. Each time he swung, the ax cut into the slab like it was warm cheese, but the guy looked unsatisfied and went back to honing the edge. "What's he planning to kill with that thing?" Leo asked Nyssa. "A battleship?" "You never know. Even with Celestial bronze-" "That's the metal?" She nodded. "Mined from Mount Olympus itself. Extremely rare. Anyway, it usually disintegrates monsters on contact, but big powerful ones have notoriously tough hides. Drakons, for instances-" "You mean dragons?" "Similar species. You'll learn the difference in monsterfighting class." "Monster-fighting class. Yeah, I already got my black belt in that." She didn't crack a smile. Leo hoped she wasn't this serious all the time. His dad's side of the family had to have some sense of humor, right? They passed a couple of guys making a bronze windup toy. At least that's what it looked like. It was a six-inch-tall centaur-half man, half horse-armed with a miniature bow. One of the campers cranked the centaur's tail, and it whirred to life. It galloped across the table, yelling, "Die, mosquito! Die, mosquito!" and shooting everything in sight. Apparently this had happened before, because everybody knew to hit the floor except Leo. Six needle-sized arrows embedded themselves in his shirt before a camper grabbed a hammer and smashed the centaur to pieces. "Stupid curse!" The camper waved his hammer at the sky. "I just want a magic bug killer! Is that too much to ask?" "Ouch," Leo said. Nyssa pulled the needles out of his shirt. "Ah, you're fine. Let's move on before they rebuild it." Leo rubbed his chest as they walked. "That sort of thing happen a lot?" "Lately," Nyssa said, "everything we build turns to junk." "The curse?" Nyssa frowned. "I don't believe in curses. But something's wrong. And if we don't figure out the dragon problem, it's gonna get even worse." "The dragon problem?" Leo hoped she was talking about a miniature dragon, maybe one that killed cockroaches, but he got the feeling he wasn't going to be so lucky. Nyssa took him over to a big wall map that a couple of girls were studying. The map showed the camp-a semicircle of land with Long Island Sound on the north shore, the woods to the west, the cabins to the east, and a ring of hills to the south. "It's got to be in the hills," the first girl said. "We looked in the hills," the second argued. "The woods are a better hiding place." "But we already set traps-" "Hold up," Leo said. "You guys lost a dragon? A real fullsize dragon?" "It's a bronze dragon," Nyssa said. "But yes, it's a life-size automaton. Hephaestus cabin built it years ago. Then it was lost in the woods until a few summers back, when Beckendorf found it in pieces and rebuilt it. It's been helping protect the camp, but, um, it's a little unpredictable." "Unpredictable," Leo said. "It goes haywire and smashes down cabins, sets people on fire, tries to eat the satyrs." "That's pretty unpredictable." Nyssa nodded. "Beckendorf was the only one who could control it. Then he died, and the dragon just got worse and worse. Finally it went berserk and ran off. Occasionally it shows up, demolishes something, and runs away again. Everyone expects us to find it and destroy it-" "Destroy it?" Leo was appalled. "You've got a life-size bronze dragon, and you want to destroy it?" "It breathes fire," Nyssa explained. "It's deadly and out of control." "But it's a dragon! Dude, that's so awesome. Can't you try talking to it, controlling it?" "We tried. Jake Mason tried. You saw how well that worked." Leo thought about Jake, wrapped in a body cast, lying alone on his bunk. "Still-" "There's no other option." Nyssa turned to the other girls. "Let's try more traps in the woods-here, here, and here. Bait them with thirty-weight motor oil." "The dragon drinks that?" Leo asked. "Yeah." Nyssa sighed regretfully. "He used to like it with a little Tabasco sauce, right before bed. If he springs a trap, we can come in with acid sprayers-should melt through his hide. Then we get metal cutters and _ and finish the job." They all looked sad. Leo realized they didn't want to kill the dragon any more than he did. "Guys," he said. "There has to be another way." Nyssa looked doubtful, but a few other campers stopped what they were working on and drifted over to hear the conversation. "Like what?" one asked. "The thing breathes fire. We can't even get close." Fire, Leo thought. Oh, man, the things he could tell themabout fire_ But he had to be careful, even if these were his brothers and sisters. Especially if he had to live with them. "Well _" He hesitated. "Hephaestus is the god of fire, right? So don't any of you have like fire resistance or something?" Nobody acted as if it was a crazy question, which was a relief, but Nyssa shook her head gravely. "That's a Cyclops ability, Leo. Demigod children of Hephaestus _ we're just good with our hands. We're builders, craftsmen, weaponsmiths-stuff like that." Leo's shoulders slumped. "Oh." A guy in back said, "Well, a long time ago-" "Yeah, okay," Nyssa conceded. "A long time ago some children of Hephaestus were born with power over fire. But that ability was very, very rare. And always dangerous. No demigod like that has been born in centuries. The last one _" She looked at one of the other kids for help. "Sixteen sixty-six," the girl offered. "Guy named Thomas Faynor. He started the Great Fire of London, destroyed most of the city." "Right," Nyssa said. "When a child of Hephaestus like that appears, it usually means something catastrophic is about to happen.And we don't need any more catastrophes." Leo tried to keep his face clear of emotion, which wasn't his strong suit. "I guess I see your point. Too bad, though. If you could resist flames, you could get close to the dragon." "Then it would kill you with its claws and fangs," Nyssa said. "Or simply step on you. No, we've got to destroy it. Trust me, if anyone could figure out another answer _" She didn't finish, but Leo got the message. This was the cabin's big test. If they could do something only Beckendorf could do, if they could subdue the dragon without killing it, then maybe their curse would be lifted. But they were stumped for ideas.Any camper who figured out how would be a hero. A conch horn blew in the distance. Campers started putting up their tools and projects. Leo hadn't realized it was getting so late, but he looked through the windows and saw the sun going down. His ADHD did that to him sometimes. If he was bored, a fifty-minute class seemed like six hours. If he was interested in something, like touring a demigod camp, hours slipped away and bam-the day was over. "Dinner," Nyssa said. "Come on, Leo." "Up at the pavilion, right?" he asked. She nodded. "You guys go ahead," Leo said. "Can you _ give me a second?" Nyssa hesitated. Then her expression softened. "Sure. It's a lot to process. I remember my first day. Come up when you're ready. Just don't touch anything. Almost every project in here can kill you if you're not careful." "No touching," Leo promised. His cabinmates filed out of the forge. Soon Leo was alone with the sounds of the bellows, the waterwheels, and small machines clicking and whirring. He stared at the map of camp-the locations where his newfound siblings were going to put traps to catch a dragon. It was wrong. Plain wrong. Very rare, he thought.And always dangerous. He held out his hand and studied his fingers. They were long and thin, not callused like the other Hephaestus campers'. Leo had never been the biggest or the strongest kid. He'd survived in tough neighborhoods, tough schools, tough foster homes by using his wits. He was the class clown, the court jester, because he'd learned early that if you cracked jokes and pretended you weren't scared, you usually didn't get beat up. Even the baddest gangster kids would tolerate you, keep you around for laughs. Plus, humor was a good way to hide the pain. And if that didn't work, there was always Plan B. Run away. Over and over. There was a Plan C, but he'd promised himself never to use it again. He felt an urge to try it now-something he hadn't done since the accident, since his mom's death. He extended his fingers and felt them tingle, like they were waking up-pins and needles. Then flames flickered to life, curls of red-hot fire dancing across his palm. ASSOONAS JASONSAW THEHOUSE, he knew he was a dead man. "Here we are!" Drew said cheerfully. "The Big House, camp headquarters." It didn't look threatening, just a four-story manor painted baby blue with white trim. The wraparound porch had lounge chairs, a card table, and an empty wheelchair. Wind chimes shaped like nymphs turned into trees as they spun. Jason could imagine old people coming here for summer vacation, sitting on the porch and sipping prune juice while they watched the sunset. Still, the windows seemed to glare down at him like angry eyes. The wide-open doorway looked ready to swallowhim. On the highest gable, a bronze eagle weathervane spun in the wind and pointed straight in his direction, as if telling him to turn around. Every molecule in Jason's body told him he was on enemy ground. "I am not supposed to be here," he said. Drew circled her arm through his. "Oh, please. You're perfect here, sweetie. Believe me, I've seen a lot of heroes." Drew smelled like Christmas-a strange combination of pine and nutmeg. Jason wondered if she always smelled like that, or if it was some kind of special perfume for the holidays. Her pink eyeliner was really distracting. Every time she blinked, he felt compelled to look at her. Maybe that was the point, to show off her warm brown eyes. She was pretty. No doubt about that. But she made Jason feel uncomfortable. He slipped his arm away as gently as he could. "Look, I appreciate-" "Is it that girl?" Drew pouted. "Oh, please, tell me you are not dating the Dumpster Queen." "You mean Piper? Um _" Jason wasn't sure how to answer. He didn't think he'd ever seen Piper before today, but he felt strangely guilty about it. He knew he shouldn't be in this place. He shouldn't befriend these people, and certainly he shouldn't date one of them. Still _Piper had been holding his hand when he woke up on that bus. She believed she was his girlfriend. She'd been brave on the skywalk, fighting those venti, and when Jason had caught her in midair and they'd held each other face-to-face, he couldn't pretend he wasn't a little tempted to kiss her. But that wasn't right. He didn't even know his own story. He couldn't play with her emotions like that. Drew rolled her eyes. "Let me help you decide, sweetie. You can do better.A guy with your looks and obvious talent?" She wasn't looking at him, though. She was staring at a spot right above his head. "You're waiting for a sign," he guessed. "Like what popped over Leo's head." "What? No! Well _ yes. I mean, from what I heard, you're pretty powerful, right? You're going to be important at camp, so I figure your parent will claim you right away. And I'd love to see that. I wanna be with you every step of the way! So is your dad or mom the god? Please tell me it's not your mom. Iwould hate it if you were an Aphrodite kid." "Why?" "Then you'd be my half brother, silly. You can't date somebody from your own cabin. Yuck!" "But aren't all the gods related?" Jason asked. "So isn't everyone here your cousin or something?" "Aren't you cute! Sweetie, the godly side of your family doesn't count except for your parent. So anybody from another cabin-they're fair game. So who's your godly parent-momor dad?" As usual, Jason didn't have an answer. He looked up, but no glowing sign popped above his head. At the top of the Big House, the weathervane was still pointing his direction, that bronze eagle glaring as if to say, Turn around, kid, while you still can. Then he heard footsteps on the front porch. No-not footsteps-hooves. "Chiron!" Drew called. "This is Jason. He's totally awesome!" Jason backed up so fast he almost tripped. Rounding the corner of the porch was a man on horseback. Except he wasn't on horseback-he was part of the horse. From the waist up he was human, with curly brown hair and a well-trimmed beard. He wore a T-shirt that said World's Best Centaur, and had a quiver and bow strapped to his back. His head was so high up he had to duck to avoid the porch lights, because from the waist down, he was a white stallion. Chiron started to smile at Jason. Then the color drained from his face. "You _" The centaur's eyes flared like a cornered animal's. "You should be dead." Chiron ordered Jason-well, invited, but it sounded like an order-to come inside the house. He told Drew to go back to her cabin, which Drew didn't look happy about. The centaur trotted over to the empty wheelchair on the porch. He slipped off his quiver and bow and backed up to the chair, which opened like a magician's box. Chiron gingerly stepped into it with his back legs and began scrunching himself into a space that should've been much too small. Jason imagined a truck's reversing noises-beep, beep, beep -as the centaur's lower half disappeared and the chair folded up, popping out a set of fake human legs covered in a blanket, so Chiron appeared to be a regular mortal guy in a wheelchair. "Follow me," he ordered. "We have lemonade." The living room looked like it had been swallowed by a rain forest. Grapevines curved up the walls and across the ceiling, which Jason found a little strange. He didn't think plants grew like that inside, especially in the winter, but these were leafy green and bursting with bunches of red grapes. Leather couches faced a stone fireplace with a crackling fire. Wedged in one corner, an old-style Pac-Man arcade game beeped and blinked. Mounted on the walls was an assortment of masks-smiley/frowny Greek theater types, feathered Mardi Gras masks, Venetian Carnevale masks with big beaklike noses, carved wooden masks from Africa. Grapevines grew through their mouths so they seemed to have leafy tongues. Some had red grapes bulging through their eyeholes. But the weirdest thing was the stuffed leopard's head above the fireplace. It looked so real, its eyes seemed to followJason. Then it snarled, and Jason nearly leaped out of his skin. "Now, Seymour," Chiron chided. "Jason is a friend. Behave yourself." "That thing is alive!" Jason said. Chiron rummaged through the side pocket of his wheelchair and brought out a package of Snausages. He threw one to the leopard, who snapped it up and licked his lips. "You must excuse the decor," Chiron said. "All this was a parting gift from our old director before he was recalled to Mount Olympus. He thought it would help us to remember him. Mr. D has a strange sense of humor." "Mr. D," Jason said. "Dionysus?" "Mmm hmm." Chiron poured lemonade, though his hands were trembling a little. "As for Seymour, well, Mr. D liberated him from a Long Island garage sale. The leopard is Mr. D's sacred animal, you see, and Mr. D was appalled that someone would stuff such a noble creature. He decided to grant it life, on the assumption that life as a mounted head was better than no life at all. I must say it's a kinder fate than Seymour's previous owner got." Seymour bared his fangs and sniffed the air, as if hunting for more Snausages. "If he's only a head," Jason said, "where does the food go when he eats?" "Better not to ask," Chiron said. "Please, sit." Jason took some lemonade, though his stomach was fluttering. Chiron sat back in his wheelchair and tried for a smile, but Jason could tell it was forced. The old man's eyes were as deep and dark as wells. "So, Jason," he said, "would you mind telling me-ah -where you're from?" "Iwish I knew." Jason told him the whole story, from waking up on the bus to crash-landing at Camp Half-Blood. He didn't see any point in hiding the details, and Chiron was a good listener. He didn't react to the story, other than to nod encouragingly for more. When Jason was done, the old man sipped his lemonade. "I see," Chiron said. "And you must have questions for me. " "Only one," Jason admitted. "What did you mean when you said that I should be dead?" Chiron studied him with concern, as if he expected Jason to burst into flames. "My boy, do you know what those marks on your arm mean? The color of your shirt? Do you remember anything?" Jason looked at the tattoo on his forearm: SPQR, the eagle, twelve straight lines. "No," he said. "Nothing." "Do you know where you are?" Chiron asked. "Do you understand what this place is, and who I am?" "You're Chiron the centaur," Jason said. "I'm guessing you're the same one from the old stories, who used to train the Greek heroes like Heracles. This is a camp for demigods, children of the Olympian gods." "So you believe those gods still exist?" "Yes," Jason said immediately. "I mean, I don't think we should worship them or sacrifice chickens to them or anything, but they're still around because they're a powerful part of civilization. They move from country to country as the center of power shifts-like they moved from Ancient Greece to Rome." "I couldn't have said it better." Something about Chiron's voice had changed. "So you already knowthe gods are real. You have already been claimed, haven't you?" "Maybe," Jason answered. "I'm not really sure." Seymour the leopard snarled. Chiron waited, and Jason realized what had just happened. The centaur had switched to another language and Jason had understood, automatically answering in the same tongue. "Quis erat-" Jason faltered, then made a conscious effort to speak English. "What was that?" "You know Latin," Chiron observed. "Most demigods recognize a few phrases, of course. It's in their blood, but not as much as Ancient Greek. None can speak Latin fluently without practice." Jason tried to wrap his mind around what that meant, but too many pieces were missing from his memory. He still had the feeling that he shouldn't be here. It was wrong-and dangerous. But at least Chiron wasn't threatening. In fact the centaur seemed concerned for him, afraid for his safety. The fire reflected in Chiron's eyes, making them dance fretfully. "I taught your namesake, you know, the original Jason. He had a hard path. I've seen many heroes come and go. Occasionally, they have happy endings. Mostly, they don't. It breaks my heart, like losing a child each time one of my pupils dies. But you-you are not like any pupil I've ever taught. Your presence here could be a disaster." "Thanks," Jason said. "You must be an inspiring teacher." "I am sorry, my boy. But it's true. I had hoped that after Percy's success-" "Percy Jackson, you mean. Annabeth's boyfriend, the one who's missing." Chiron nodded. "I hoped that after he succeeded in the Titan War and saved Mount Olympus, we might have some peace. I might be able to enjoy one final triumph, a happy ending, and perhaps retire quietly. I should have known better. The last chapter approaches, just as it did before. The worst is yet to come." In the corner, the arcade game made a sad pew-pew-pewpewsound, like a Pac-Man had just died. "Ohh-kay," Jason said. "So-last chapter, happened before, worst yet to come. Sounds fun, but can we go back to the part where I'm supposed to be dead? I don't like that part." "I'm afraid I can't explain, my boy. I swore on the River Styx and on all things sacred that I would never _" Chiron frowned. "But you're here, in violation of the same oath. That too, should not be possible. I don't understand. Who would've done such a thing? Who-" Seymour the leopard howled. His mouth froze, half open. The arcade game stopped beeping. The fire stopped crackling, its flames hardening like red glass. The masks stared down silently at Jason with their grotesque grape eyes and leafy tongues. "Chiron?" Jason asked. "What's going-" The old centaur had frozen, too. Jason jumped off the couch, but Chiron kept staring at the same spot, his mouth open mid-sentence. His eyes didn't blink. His chest didn't move. Jason, a voice said. For a horrible moment, he thought the leopard had spoken. Then dark mist boiled out of Seymour's mouth, and an even worse thought occurred to Jason: storm spirits. He grabbed the golden coin from his pocket. With a quick flip, it changed into a sword. The mist took the form of a woman in black robes. Her face was hooded, but her eyes glowed in the darkness. Over her shoulders she wore a goatskin cloak. Jason wasn't sure how he knew it was goatskin, but he recognized it and knew it was important. Would you attack your patron? the woman chided. Her voice echoed in Jason's head. Lower your sword. "Who are you?" he demanded. "How did you-" Our time is limited, Jason. My prison grows stronger by the hour. It took me a full month to gather enough energy to work even the smallest magic through its bonds. I've managed to bring you here, but nowI have little time left, and even less power. This may be the last time I can speak to you. "You're in prison?" Jason decided maybe he wouldn't lower his sword. "Look, I don't know you, and you're not my patron." You knowme, she insisted. I have known you since your birth. "I don't remember. I don't remember anything." No, you don't, she agreed. That also was necessary. Long ago, your father gave me your life as a gift to placate my anger. He named you Jason, after my favorite mortal. You belong to me. "Whoa," Jason said. "I don't belong to anyone." Now is the time to pay your debt, she said. Find my prison. Free me, or their king will rise from the earth, and I will be destroyed. You will never retrieve your memory. "Is that a threat? You took my memories?" You have until sunset on the solstice, Jason. Four short days. Do not fail me. The dark woman dissolved, and the mist curled into the leopard's mouth. Time unfroze. Seymour's howl turned into a cough like he'd sucked in a hair ball. The fire crackled to life, the arcade machine beeped, and Chiron said, "-would dare to bring you here?" "Probably the lady in the mist," Jason offered. Chiron looked up in surprise. "Weren't you just sitting _why do you have a sword drawn?" "I hate to tell you this," Jason said, "but I think your leopard just ate a goddess." He told Chiron about the frozen-in-time visit, the dark misty figure that disappeared into Seymour's mouth. "Oh, dear," Chiron murmured. "That does explain a lot." "Then why don't you explain a lot to me?" Jason said. "Please." Before Chiron could say anything, footsteps reverberated on the porch outside. The front door blew open, and Annabeth and another girl, a redhead, burst in, dragging Piper between them. Piper's head lolled like she was unconscious. "What happened?" Jason rushed over. "What's wrong with her?" "Hera's cabin," Annabeth gasped, like they'd run all the way. "Vision. Bad." The redheaded girl looked up, and Jason saw that she'd been crying. "I think _" The redheaded girl gulped. "I think I may have killed her." JASONAND THE REDHEAD, WHO INTRODUCED herself as Rachel, put Piper on the couch while Annabeth rushed down the hall to get a med kit. Piper was still breathing, but she wouldn't wake up. She seemed to be in some kind of coma. "We've got to heal her," Jason insisted. "There's a way, right?" Seeing her so pale, barely breathing, Jason felt a surge of protectiveness. Maybe he didn't really know her. Maybe she wasn't his girlfriend. But they'd survived the Grand Canyon together. They'd come all this way. He'd left her side for a little while, and this had happened. Chiron put his hand on her forehead and grimaced. "Her mind is in a fragile state. Rachel, what happened?" "Iwish I knew," she said. "As soon as I got to camp, I had a premonition about Hera's cabin. I went inside. Annabeth and Piper came in while I was there. We talked, and then-I just blanked out.Annabeth said I spoke in a different voice." "A prophecy?" Chiron asked. "No. The spirit of Delphi comes from within. I know howthat feels. This was like long distance, a power trying to speak through me." Annabeth ran in with a leather pouch. She knelt next to Piper. "Chiron, what happened back there-I've never seen anything like it. I've heard Rachel's prophecy voice. This was different. She sounded like an older woman. She grabbed Piper's shoulders and told her-" "To free her from a prison?" Jason guessed. Annabeth stared at him. "How did you know that?" Chiron made a three-fingered gesture over his heart, like a ward against evil. "Jason, tell them.Annabeth, the medicine bag, please." Chiron trickled drops from a medicine vial into Piper's mouth while Jason explained what had happened when the room froze-the dark misty woman who had claimed to be Jason's patron. When he was done, no one spoke, which made him more anxious. "So does this happen often?" he asked. "Supernatural phone calls from convicts demanding you bust them out of jail? " "Your patron," Annabeth said. "Not your godly parent?" "No, she said patron. She also said my dad had given her my life." Annabeth frowned. "I've never of heard anything like that before. You said the storm spirit on the skywalk-he claimed to be working for some mistress who was giving him orders, right? Could it be this woman you saw, messing with your mind?" "I don't think so," Jason said. "If she were my enemy, why would she be asking for my help? She's imprisoned. She's worried about some enemy getting more powerful. Something about a king rising from the earth on the solstice-" Annabeth turned to Chiron. "Not Kronos. Please tell me it's not that." The centaur looked miserable. He held Piper's wrist, checking her pulse. At last he said, "It is not Kronos. That threat is ended. But _" "But what?" Annabeth asked. Chiron closed the medicine bag. "Piper needs rest. We should discuss this later." "Or now," Jason said. "Sir, Mr. Chiron, you told me the greatest threat was coming. The last chapter. You can't possibly mean something worse than an army of Titans, right?" "Oh," Rachel said in a small voice. "Oh, dear. The woman was Hera. Of course. Her cabin, her voice. She showed herself to Jason at the same moment." "Hera?" Annabeth's snarl was even fiercer than Seymour's. "She took you over? She did this to Piper?" "I think Rachel's right," Jason said. "The woman did seemlike a goddess. And she wore this-this goatskin cloak. That's a symbol of Juno, isn't it?" "It is?" Annabeth scowled. "I've never heard that." Chiron nodded reluctantly. "Of Juno, Hera's Roman aspect, in her most warlike state. The goatskin cloak was a symbol of the Roman soldier." "So Hera is imprisoned?" Rachel asked. "Who could do that to the queen of the gods?" Annabeth crossed her arms. "Well, whoever they are, maybe we should thank them. If they can shut up Hera-" "Annabeth," Chiron warned, "she is still one of the Olympians. In many ways, she is the glue that holds the gods' family together. If she truly has been imprisoned and is in danger of destruction, this could shake the foundations of the world. It could unravel the stability of Olympus, which is never great even in the best of times. And if Hera has asked Jason for help-" "Fine," Annabeth grumbled. "Well, we know Titans can capture a god, right? Atlas captured Artemis a few years ago. And in the old stories, the gods captured each other in traps all the time. But something worse than a Titan _ ?" Jason looked at the leopard's head. Seymour was smacking his lips like the goddess had tasted much better than a Snausage. "Hera said she'd been trying to break through her prison bonds for a month." "Which is how long Olympus has been closed," Annabeth said. "So the gods must know something bad is going on." "But why use her energy to send me here?" Jason asked. "She wiped my memory, plopped me into the Wilderness School field trip, and sent you a dream vision to come pick me up. Why am I so important? Why not just send up an emergency flare to the other gods-let them know where she is so they bust her out?" "The gods need heroes to do their will down here on earth," Rachel said. "That's right, isn't it? Their fates are always intertwined with demigods." "That's true," Annabeth said, "but Jason's got a point. Why him? Why take his memory?" "And Piper's involved somehow," Rachel said. "Hera sent her the same message-Free me. And, Annabeth, this must have something to do with Percy's disappearing." Annabeth fixed her eyes on Chiron. "Why are you so quiet, Chiron? What is it we're facing?" The old centaur's face looked like it had aged ten years in a matter of minutes. The lines around his eyes were deeply etched. "My dear, in this, I cannot help you. I am so sorry." Annabeth blinked. "You've never _ you've never kept information from me. Even the last great prophecy-" "I will be in my office." His voice was heavy. "I need some time to think before dinner. Rachel, will you watch the girl? Call Argus to bring her to the infirmary, if you'd like. And Annabeth, you should speak with Jason. Tell him about-about the Greek and Roman gods." "But _" The centaur turned his wheelchair and rolled off down the hallway. Annabeth's eyes turned stormy. She muttered something in Greek, and Jason got the feeling it wasn't complimentary toward centaurs. "I'm sorry," Jason said. "I think my being here-I don't know. I've messed things up coming to the camp, somehow. Chiron said he'd sworn an oath and couldn't talk about it." "What oath?" Annabeth demanded. "I've never seen himact this way. And why would he tell me to talk to you about the gods..." Her voice trailed off. Apparently she'd just noticed Jason's sword sitting on the coffee table. She touched the blade gingerly, like it might be hot. "Is this gold?" she said. "Do you remember where you got it?" "No," Jason said. "Like I said, I don't remember anything." Annabeth nodded, like she'd just come up with a rather desperate plan. "If Chiron won't help, we'll need to figure things out ourselves. Which means _ Cabin Fifteen. Rachel, you'll keep an eye on Piper?" "Sure," Rachel promised. "Good luck, you two." "Hold on," Jason said. "What's in Cabin Fifteen?" Annabeth stood. "Maybe a way to get your memory back." They headed toward a newer wing of cabins in the southwest corner of the green. Some were fancy, with glowing walls or blazing torches, but Cabin Fifteen was not so dramatic. It looked like an old-fashioned prairie house with mud walls and a rush roof. On the door hung a wreath of crimson flowers-red poppies, Jason thought, though he wasn't sure how he knew. "You think this is my parent's cabin?" he asked. "No," Annabeth said. "This is the cabin for Hypnos, the god of sleep." "Then why-" "You've forgotten everything," she said. "If there's any god who can help us figure out memory loss, it's Hypnos." Inside, even though it was almost dinnertime, three kids were sound asleep under piles of covers. A warm fire crackled in the hearth. Above the mantel hung a tree branch, each twig dripping white liquid into a collection of tin bowls. Jason was tempted to catch a drop on his finger just to see what it was, but he held himself back. Soft violin music played from somewhere. The air smelled like fresh laundry. The cabin was so cozy and peaceful that Jason's eyelids started to feel heavy. A nap sounded like a great idea. He was exhausted. There were plenty of empty beds, all with feather pillows and fresh sheets and fluffy quilts and-Annabeth nudged him. "Snap out of it." Jason blinked. He realized his knees had been starting to buckle. "Cabin Fifteen does that to everyone," Annabeth warned. "If you ask me, this place is even more dangerous than the Ares cabin. At least with Ares, you can learn where the land mines are." "Land mines?" She walked up to the nearest snoring kid and shook his shoulder. "Clovis! Wake up!" The kid looked like a baby cow. He had a blond tuft of hair on a wedge-shaped head, with thick features and a thick neck. His body was stocky, but he had spindly little arms like he'd never lifted anything heavier than a pillow. "Clovis!" Annabeth shook harder, then finally knocked on his forehead about six times. "Wh-wh-what?" Clovis complained, sitting up and squinting. He yawned hugely, and both Annabeth and Jason yawned too. "Stop that!" Annabeth said. "We need your help." "Iwas sleeping." "You're always sleeping." "Good night." Before he could pass out, Annabeth yanked his pillowoffthe bed. "That's not fair," Clovis complained meekly. "Give it back." "First help," Annabeth said. "Then sleep." Clovis sighed. His breath smelled like warm milk. "Fine. What?" Annabeth explained about Jason's problem. Every once in a while she'd snap her fingers under Clovis's nose to keep himawake. Clovis must have been really excited, because when Annabeth was done, he didn't pass out. He actually stood and stretched, then blinked at Jason. "So you don't remember anything, huh?" "Just impressions," Jason said. "Feelings, like _" "Yes?" Clovis said. "Like I know I shouldn't be here. At this camp. I'm in danger." "Hmm. Close your eyes." Jason glanced atAnnabeth, but she nodded reassuringly. Jason was afraid he'd end up snoring in one of the bunks forever, but he closed his eyes. His thoughts became murky, as if he were sinking into a dark lake. The next thing he knew, his eyes snapped open. He was sitting in a chair by the fire. Clovis and Annabeth knelt next to him. "-serious, all right," Clovis was saying. "What happened?" Jason said. "How long-" "Just a few minutes," Annabeth said. "But it was tense. You almost dissolved." Jason hoped she didn't mean literally, but her expression was solemn. "Usually," Clovis said, "memories are lost for a good reason. They sink under the surface like dreams, and with a good sleep, I can bring them back. But this _" "Lethe?" Annabeth asked. "No," Clovis said. "Not even Lethe." "Lethe?" Jason asked. Clovis pointed to the tree branch dripping milky drops above the fireplace. "The River Lethe in the Underworld. It dissolves your memories, wipes your mind clean permanently. That's the branch of a poplar tree from the Underworld, dipped into the Lethe. It's the symbol of my father, Hypnos. Lethe is not a place you want to go swimming." Annabeth nodded. "Percy went there once. He told me it was powerful enough to wipe the mind of a Titan." Jason was suddenly glad he hadn't touched the branch. "But _ that's not my problem?" "No," Clovis agreed. "Your mind wasn't wiped, and your memories weren't buried. They've been stolen." The fire crackled. Drops of Lethe water plinked into the tin cups on the mantel. One of the other Hypnos campers muttered in his sleep-something about a duck. "Stolen," Jason said. "How?" "A god," Clovis said. "Only a god would have that kind of power." "We know that," said Jason. "It was Juno. But how did she do it, and why?" Clovis scratched his neck. "Juno?" "He means Hera," Annabeth said. "For some reason, Jason likes the Roman names." "Hmm," Clovis said. "What?" Jason asked. "Does that mean something?" "Hmm," Clovis said again, and this time Jason realized he was snoring. "Clovis!" he yelled. "What? What?" His eyes fluttered open. "We were talking about pillows, right? No, gods. I remember. Greek and Roman. Sure, could be important." "But they're the same gods," Annabeth said. "Just different names." "Not exactly," Clovis said. Jason sat forward, now very much awake. "What do you mean, not exactly?" "Well _" Clovis yawned. "Some gods are only Roman. Like Janus, or Pompona. But even the major Greek gods-it's not just their names that changed when they moved to Rome. Their appearances changed. Their attributes changed. They even had slightly different personalities." "But _" Annabeth faltered. "Okay, so maybe people sawthem differently through the centuries. That doesn't change who they are." they are. "Sure it does." Clovis began to nod off, and Jason snapped his fingers under his nose. "Coming, Mother!" he yelped. "I mean _ Yeah, I'm awake. So, um, personalities. The gods change to reflect their host cultures. You know that, Annabeth. I mean, these days, Zeus likes tailored suits, reality television, and that Chinese food place on East Twenty-eighth Street, right? It was the same in Roman times, and the gods were Roman almost as long as they were Greek. It was a big empire, lasted for centuries. So of course their Roman aspects are still a big part of their character." "Makes sense," Jason said. Annabeth shook her head, mystified. "But how do you know all this, Clovis?" "Oh, I spend a lot of time dreaming. I see the gods there all the time-always shifting forms. Dreams are fluid, you know. You can be in different places at once, always changing identities. It's a lot like being a god, actually. Like recently, I dreamed Iwas watching a Michael Jackson concert, and then I was onstage with Michael Jackson, and we were singing this duet, and I could not remember the words for 'The Girl Is Mine.' Oh, man, it was so embarrassing, I-" "Clovis," Annabeth interrupted. "Back to Rome?" "Right, Rome," Clovis said. "So we call the gods by their Greek names because that's their original form. But saying their Roman aspects are exactly the same-that's not true. In Rome, they became more warlike. They didn't mingle with mortals as much. They were harsher, more powerful-the gods of an empire." "Like the dark side of the gods?" Annabeth asked. "Not exactly," Clovis said. "They stood for discipline, honor, strength-" "Good things, then," Jason said. For some reason, he felt the need to speak up for the Roman gods, though wasn't sure why it mattered to him. "I mean, discipline is important, right? That's what made Rome last so long." Clovis gave him a curious look. "That's true. But the Roman gods weren't very friendly. For instance, my dad, Hypnos _ he didn't do much except sleep in Greek times. In Roman times, they called him Somnus. He liked killing people who didn't stay alert at their jobs. If they nodded offat the wrong time, boom-they never woke up. He killed the helmsman of Aeneas when they were sailing from Troy." "Nice guy," Annabeth said. "But I still don't understand what it has to do with Jason." "Neither do I," Clovis said. "But if Hera took your memory, only she can give it back. And if I had to meet the queen of the gods, I'd hope she was more in a Hera mood than a Juno mood. Can I go back to sleep now?" Annabeth stared at the branch above the fire, dripping Lethe water into the cups. She looked so worried, Jason wondered if she was considering a drink to forget her troubles. Then she stood and tossed Clovis his pillow. "Thanks, Clovis. We'll see you at dinner." "Can I get room service?" Clovis yawned and stumbled to his bunk. "I feel like _ zzzz _" He collapsed with his butt in the air and his face buried in pillow. "Won't he suffocate?" Jason asked. "He'll be fine," Annabeth said. "But I'm beginning to think that you are in serious trouble." PIPERDREAMEDABOUTHERLASTDAY with her dad. They were on the beach near Big Sur, taking a break fromsurfing. The morning had been so perfect, Piper knewsomething had to go wrong soon-a rabid horde of paparazzi, or maybe a great white shark attack. No way her luck could hold. But so far, they'd had excellent waves, an overcast sky, and a mile of oceanfront completely to themselves. Dad had found this out-of-the-way spot, rented a beachfront villa and the properties on either side, and somehow managed to keep it secret. If he stayed there too long, Piper knew the photographers would find him. They always did. "Nice job out there, Pipes." He gave her the smile he was famous for: perfect teeth, dimpled chin, a twinkle in his dark eyes that always made grown women scream and ask him to sign their bodies in permanent marker. (Seriously, Piper thought, get a life.) His close-cropped black hair gleamed with salt water. "You're getting better at hanging ten." salt water. Youre getting better at hanging ten. Piper flushed with pride, though she suspected Dad was just being nice. She still spent most of her time wiping out. It took special talent to run over yourself with a surfboard. Her dad was the natural surfer-which made no sense since he'd been raised a poor kid in Oklahoma, hundreds of miles fromthe ocean-but he was amazing on the curls. Piper would've given up surfing a long time ago except it let her spend time with him. There weren't many ways she could do that. "Sandwich?" Dad dug into the picnic basket his chef, Arno, had made. "Let's see: turkey pesto, crabcake wasabi -ah, a Piper special. Peanut butter and jelly." She took the sandwich, though her stomach was too upset to eat. She always asked for PB&J. Piper was vegetarian, for one thing. She had been ever since they'd driven past that slaughterhouse in Chino and the smell had made her insides want to come outside. But it was more than that. PB&J was simple food, like a regular kid would have for lunch. Sometimes she pretended her dad had actually made it for her, not a personal chef from France who liked to wrap the sandwich in gold leaf paper with a light-up sparkler instead of a toothpick. Couldn't anything be simple? That's why she turned down the fancy clothes Dad always offered, the designer shoes, the trips to the salon. She cut her own hair with a pair of plastic Garfield safety scissors, deliberately making it uneven. She preferred to wear beat-up running shoes, jeans, a T-shirt, and her old Polartec jacket from the time they went snowboarding. And she hated the snobby private schools Dad thought were good for her. She kept getting herself kicked out. He kept finding more schools. Yesterday, she'd pulled her biggest heist yet-driving that "borrowed" BMW out of the dealership. She had to pull a bigger stunt each time, because it took more and more to get Dad's attention. Now she regretted it. Dad didn't know yet. She'd meant to tell him that morning. Then he'd surprised her with this trip, and she couldn't ruin it. It was the first time they'd had a day together in what-three months? "What's wrong?" He passed her a soda. "Dad, there's something-" "Hold on, Pipes. That's a serious face. Ready for Any Three Questions?" They'd been playing that game for years-her dad's way of staying connected in the shortest possible amount of time. They could ask each other any three questions. Nothing offlimits, and you had to answer honestly. The rest of the time, Dad promised to stay out of her business-which was easy, since he was never around. Piper knew most kids would find a Q&A like this with their parents totally mortifying. But she looked forward to it. It was like surfing-not easy, but a way to feel like she actually had a father. "First question," she said. "Mom." No surprise. That was always one of her topics. Her dad shrugged with resignation. "What do you want to know, Piper? I've already told you-she disappeared. I don't know why, or where she went. After you were born, she simply left. I never heard from her again." "Do you think she's still alive?" It wasn't a real question. Dad was allowed to say he didn't know. But she wanted to hear how he'd answer. He stared at the waves. "Your Grandpa Tom," he said at last, "he used to tell me that if you walked far enough toward the sunset, you'd come to Ghost Country, where you could talk to the dead. He said a long time ago, you could bring the dead back; but then mankind messed up. Well, it's a long story." "Like the Land of the Dead for the Greeks," Piper remembered. "It was in the west, too. And Orpheus-he tried to bring his wife back." Dad nodded. A year before, he'd had his biggest role as an Ancient Greek king. Piper had helped him research the myths-all those old stories about people getting turned to stone and boiled in lakes of lava. They'd had a fun time reading together, and it made Piper's life seem not so bad. For a while she'd felt closer to her dad, but like everything, it didn't last. "Lot of similarities between Greek and Cherokee," Dad agreed. "Wonder what your grandpa would think if he saw us now, sitting at the end of the western land. He'd probably think we're ghosts." "So you're saying you believe those stories? You think Mom is dead?" His eyes watered, and Piper saw the sadness behind them. She figured that's why women were so attracted to him. On the surface, he seemed confident and rugged, but his eyes held so much sadness. Women wanted to find out why. They wanted to comfort him, and they never could. Dad told Piper it was a Cherokee thing-they all had that darkness inside themfrom generations of pain and suffering. But Piper thought it was more than that. "I don't believe the stories," he said. "They're fun to tell, but if I really believed in Ghost Country, or animal spirits, or Greek gods _ I don't think I could sleep at night. I'd always be looking for somebody to blame." Somebody to blame for Grandpa Tom dying of lung cancer, Piper thought, before Dad got famous and had the money to help. For Mom-the only woman he'd ever loved -abandoning him without even a good-bye note, leaving himwith a newborn girl he wasn't ready to care for. For his being so successful, and yet still not happy. "I don't know if she's alive," he said. "But I do think she might as well be inGhost Country, Piper. There's no getting her back. If I believed otherwise _ I don't think I could stand that, either." Behind them, a car door opened. Piper turned, and her heart sank. Jane was marching toward them in her business suit, wobbling over the sand in her high heels, her PDA in hand. The look on her face was partly annoyed, partly triumphant, and Piper knew she'd been in touch with the police. Please fall down, Piper prayed. If there's any animal spirit or Greek god that can help, make Jane take a header. I'm not asking for permanent damage, just knock her out for the rest of the day, please? But Jane kept advancing. "Dad," Piper said quickly. "Something happened yesterday_" But he'd seen Jane, too. He was already reconstructing his business face. Jane wouldn't be here if it wasn't serious. A studio head called-a project fell through-or Piper had messed up again. "We'll get back to that, Pipes," he promised. "I'd better see what Jane wants. You know how she is." Yes-Piper knew. Dad trudged across the sand to meet her. Piper couldn't hear them talking, but she didn't need to. She was good at reading faces. Jane gave him the facts about the stolen car, occasionally pointing at Piper like she was a disgusting pet that had whizzed on the carpet. Dad's energy and enthusiasm drained away. He gestured for Jane to wait. Then he walked back to Piper. She couldn't stand that look in his eyes-like she'd betrayed his trust. "You told me you would try, Piper," he said. "Dad, I hate that school. I can't do it. I wanted to tell you about the BMW, but-" "They've expelled you," he said. "A car, Piper? You're sixteen next year. I would buy you any car you want. How could you-" "You mean Jane would buy me a car?" Piper demanded. She couldn't help it. The anger just welled up and spilled out of her. "Dad, just listen for once. Don't make me wait for you to ask your stupid three questions. Iwant to go to regular school. I wa nt y o u to take me to parents' night, not Jane. Or homeschool me! I learned so much when we read about Greece together. We could do that all the time! We could-" "Don't make this about me," her dad said. "I do the best I can, Piper. We've had this conversation." No, she thought. You've cut off this conversation. For years. Her dad sighed. "Jane's talked to the police, brokered a deal. The dealership won't press charges, but you have to agree to go to a boarding school in Nevada. They specialize in problems _ in kids with tough issues." "That's what I am." Her voice trembled. "A problem." "Piper _ you said you'd try. You let me down. I don't knowwhat else to do." "Do anything," she said. "But do it yourself! Don't let Jane handle it for you. You can't just send me away." Dad looked down at the picnic basket. His sandwich sat uneaten on a piece of gold leaf paper. They'd planned for a whole afternoon in the surf. Now that was ruined. Piper couldn't believe he'd really give in to Jane's wishes. Not this time. Not on something as huge as boarding school. "Go see her," Dad said. "She's got the details." "Dad _" He looked away, gazing at the ocean like he could see all the way to Ghost Country. Piper promised herself she wouldn't cry. She headed up the beach toward Jane, who smiled coldly and held up a plane ticket. As usual, she'd already arranged everything. Piper was just another problem of the day that Jane could now check off her list. Piper's dream changed. She stood on a mountaintop at night, city lights glimmering below. In front of her, a bonfire blazed. Purplish flames seemed to cast more shadows than light, but the heat was so intense, her clothes steamed. "This is your second warning," a voice rumbled, so powerful it shook the earth. Piper had heard that voice before in her dreams. She'd tried to convince herself it wasn't as scary as she remembered, but it was worse. Behind the bonfire, a huge face loomed out of the darkness. It seemed to float above the flames, but Piper knewit must be connected to an enormous body. The crude features might've been chiseled out of rock. The face hardly seemed alive except for its piercing white eyes, like raw diamonds, and its horrible frame of dreadlocks, braided with human bones. It smiled, and Piper shivered. "You'll do what you're told," the giant said. "You'll go on the quest. Do our bidding, and you may walk away alive. Otherwise-" He gestured to one side of the fire. Piper's father was hanging unconscious, tied to a stake. She tried to cry out. She wanted to call to her dad, and demand the giant let him go, but her voice wouldn't work. "I'll be watching," the giant said. "Serve me, and you both live. You have the word of Enceladus. Fail me _ well, I've slept for millennia, young demigod. I am very hungry. Fail, and I'll eat well." The giant roared with laughter. The earth trembled. A crevice opened at Piper's feet, and she tumbled into darkness. She woke feeling like she'd been trampled by an Irish step-dancing troupe. Her chest hurt, and she could barely breathe. She reached down and closed her hand around the hilt of the dagger Annabeth had given her-Katoptris, Helen of Troy's weapon. So Camp Half-Blood hadn't been a dream. "How are you feeling?" someone asked. Piper tried to focus. She was lying in a bed with a white curtain on one side, like in a nurse's office. That redheaded girl, Rachel Dare, sat next to her. On the wall was a poster of a cartoon satyr who looked disturbingly like Coach Hedge with a thermometer sticking out of his mouth. The caption read: Don't let sickness get your goat! "Where-" Piper's voice died when she saw the guy at the door. He looked like a typical California surfer dude-buff and tan, blond hair, dressed in shorts and a T-shirt. But he had hundreds of blue eyes all over his body-along his arms, down his legs, and all over his face. Even his feet had eyes, peering up at her from between the straps of his sandals. "That's Argus," Rachel said, "our head of security. He's just keeping an eye on things _ so to speak." Argus nodded. The eye on his chin winked. "Where-?" Piper tried again, but she felt like she was talking through a mouthful of cotton. "You're in the Big House," Rachel said. "Camp offices. We brought you here when you collapsed." "You grabbed me," Piper remembered. "Hera's voice-" "I'm so sorry about that," Rachel said. "Believe me, it was not my idea to get possessed. Chiron healed you with some nectar-" "Nectar?" "The drink of the gods. In small amounts, it heals demigods, if it doesn't-ah-burn you to ashes." "Oh. Fun." Rachel sat forward. "Do you remember your vision?" Piper had a moment of dread, thinking she meant the dream about the giant. Then she realized Rachel was talking about what happened in Hera's cabin. "Something's wrong with the goddess," Piper said. "She told me to free her, like she's trapped. She mentioned the earth swallowing us, and a fiery one, and something about the solstice." In the corner, Argus made a rumbling sound in his chest. His eyes all fluttered at once. "Hera created Argus," Rachel explained. "He's actually very sensitive when it comes to her safety. We're trying to keep him from crying, because last time that happened _well, it caused quite a flood." Argus sniffled. He grabbed a fistful of Kleenex from the bedside table and started dabbing eyes all over his body. "So _" Piper tried not to stare as Argus wiped the tears from his elbows. "What's happened to Hera?" "We're not sure," Rachel said. "Annabeth and Jason were here for you, by the way. Jason didn't want to leave you, but Annabeth had an idea-something that might restore his memories." "That's _ that's great." Jason had been here for her? She wished she'd been conscious for that. But if he got his memories back, would that be a good thing? She was still holding out hope that they really did know each other. She didn't want their relationship to be just a trick of the Mist. Get over yourself, she thought. If she was going to save her dad, it didn't matter whether Jason liked her or not. He would hate her eventually. Everyone here would. She looked down at the ceremonial dagger strapped to her side. Annabeth had said it was a sign of power and status, but not normally used in battle. All show and no substance. A fake, just like Piper.And its name was Katoptris, looking glass. She didn't dare unsheathe it again, because she couldn't bear to see her own reflection. "Don't worry." Rachel squeezed her arm. "Jason seems like a good guy. He had a vision too, a lot like yours. Whatever's happening with Hera-I think you two are meant to work together." Rachel smiled like this was good news, but Piper's spirits plunged even further. She'd thought that this quest-whatever it was-would involve nameless people. Now Rachel was basically telling her: Good news! Not only is your dad being held ransom by a cannibal giant, you also get to betray the guy you like! Howawesome is that? "Hey," Rachel said. "No need to cry. You'll figure it out." Piper wiped her eyes, trying to get control of herself. This wasn't like her. She was supposed to be tough-a hardened car thief, the scourge of L.A. private schools. Here she was, crying like a baby. "How can you know what I'm facing?" Rachel shrugged. "I know it's a hard choice, and your options aren't great. Like I said, I get hunches sometimes. But you're going to be claimed at the campfire. I'm almost sure. When you know who your godly parent is, things might be clearer." Clearer, Piper thought. Not necessarily better. She sat up in bed. Her forehead ached like someone had driven a spike between her eyes. There's no getting your mother back, her dad had told her. But apparently, tonight, her mom might claim her. For the first time, Piper wasn't sure she wanted that. "I hope it's Athena." She looked up, afraid Rachel might make fun of her, but the oracle just smiled. "Piper, I don't blame you. Truthfully? I think Annabeth is hoping that too. You guys are a lot alike." The comparison made Piper feel even guiltier. "Another hunch? You don't know anything about me." "You'd be surprised." "You're just saying that because you're an oracle, aren't you? You're supposed to sound all mysterious." Rachel laughed. "Don't be giving away my secrets, Piper. And don't worry. Things will work out-just maybe not the way you plan." "That's not making me feel better." Somewhere in the distance, a conch horn blew. Argus grumbled and opened the door. "Dinner?" Piper guessed. "You slept through it," Rachel said. "Time for the campfire. Let's go find out who you are." THE WHOLECAMPFIREIDEAFREAKED PIPEROUT. It made her think of that huge purple bonfire in the dreams, and her father tied to a stake. What she got instead was almost as terrifying: a sing- along. The amphitheater steps were carved into the side of a hill, facing a stone-lined fire pit. Fifty or sixty kids filled the rows, clustered into groups under various banners. Piper spotted Jason in the front next to Annabeth. Leo was nearby, sitting with a bunch of burly-looking campers under a steel gray banner emblazoned with a hammer. Standing in front of the fire, half a dozen campers with guitars and strange, old-fashioned harps-lyres?-were jumping around, leading a song about pieces of armor, something about how their grandma got dressed for war. Everybody was singing with them and making gestures for the pieces of armor and joking around. It was quite possibly the weirdest thing Piper had ever seen-one of those campfire songs that would've been completely embarrassing in daylight; but in the dark, with everybody participating, it was kind of corny and fun. As the energy level got higher, the flames did too, turning from red to orange to gold. Finally the song ended with a lot of rowdy applause. A guy on a horse trotted up. At least in the flickering light, Piper thought it was a guy on a horse. Then she realized it was a centaur-his bottom half a white stallion, his top half a middle- aged guy with curly hair and a trimmed beard. He brandished a spear impaled with toasted marshmallows. "Very nice! And a special welcome to our new arrivals. I am Chiron, camp activities director, and I'm happy you have all arrived here alive and with most of your limbs attached. In a moment, I promise we'll get to the s'mores, but first-" "What about capture the flag?" somebody yelled. Grumbling broke out among some kids in armor, sitting under a red banner with the emblem of a boar's head. "Yes," the centaur said. "I know the Ares cabin is anxious to return to the woods for our regular games." "And kill people!" one of them shouted. "However," Chiron said, "until the dragon is brought under control, that won't be possible. Cabin Nine, anything to report on that?" He turned to Leo's group. Leo winked at Piper and shot her with a finger gun. The girl next to him stood uncomfortably. She wore an army jacket a lot like Leo's, with her hair covered in a red bandanna. "We're working on it." More grumbling. "How, Nyssa?" anAres kid demanded. "Really hard," the girl said. Nyssa sat down to a lot of yelling and complaining, which caused the fire to sputter chaotically. Chiron stamped his hoof against the fire pit stones-bang, bang, bang-and the campers fell silent. "We will have to be patient," Chiron said. "In the meantime, we have more pressing matters to discuss." "Percy?" someone asked. The fire dimmed even further, but Piper didn't need the mood flames to sense the crowd's anxiety. Chiron gestured to Annabeth. She took a deep breath and stood. "I didn't find Percy," she announced. Her voice caught a little when she said his name. "He wasn't at the Grand Canyon like I thought. But we're not giving up. We've got teams everywhere. Grover, Tyson, Nico, the Hunters of Artemis -everyone's out looking. We will find him. Chiron's talking about something different.A new quest." "It's the Great Prophecy, isn't it?" a girl called out. Everyone turned. The voice had come from a group in back, sitting under a rose-colored banner with a dove emblem. They'd been chatting among themselves and not paying much attention until their leader stood up: Drew. Everyone else looked surprised. Apparently Drew didn't address the crowd very often. "Drew?" Annabeth said. "What do you mean?" "Well, come on." Drew spread her hands like the truth was obvious. "Olympus is closed. Percy's disappeared. Hera sends you a vision and you come back with three new demigods in one day. I mean, something weird is going on. The Great Prophecy has started, right?" Piper whispered to Rachel, "What's she talking about -the Great Prophecy?" Then she realized everyone else was looking at Rachel, too. "Well?" Drew called down. "You're the oracle. Has it started or not?" Rachel's eyes looked scary in the firelight. Piper was afraid she might clench up and start channeling a freaky peacock goddess again, but she stepped forward calmly and addressed the camp. "Yes," she said. "The Great Prophecy has begun." Pandemonium broke out. Piper caught Jason's eye. He mouthed, You all right? She nodded and managed a smile, but then looked away. It was too painful seeing him and not being with him. When the talking finally subsided, Rachel took another step toward the audience, and fifty-plus demigods leaned away from her, as if one skinny redheaded mortal was more intimidating than all of them put together. "For those of you who have not heard it," Rachel said, "the Great Prophecy was my first prediction. It arrived in August. It goes like this: "Seven half-bloods shall answer the call. To storm or fire the world must fall-" Jason shot to his feet. His eyes looked wild, like he'd just been tasered. Even Rachel seemed caught off guard. "J-Jason?" she said. "What's-" "Ut cum spiritu postrema sacramentum dejuremus," he chanted. "Et hostes ornamenta addent ad ianuam necem." An uneasy silence settled on the group. Piper could see from their faces that several of them were trying to translate the lines. She could tell it was Latin, but she wasn't sure why her hopefully future boyfriend was suddenly chanting like a Catholic priest. "You just _ finished the prophecy," Rachel stammered. " -An oath to keep with a final breath/And foes bear arms to the Doors of Death. How did you-" "I know those lines." Jason winced and put his hands to his temples. "I don't know how, but I knowthat prophecy." "In Latin, no less," Drew called out. "Handsome and smart." There was some giggling from the Aphrodite cabin. God, what a bunch of losers, Piper thought. But it didn't do much to break the tension. The campfire was burning a chaotic, nervous shade of green. Jason sat down, looking embarrassed, but Annabeth put a hand on his shoulder and muttered something reassuring. Piper felt a pang of jealousy. It should have been her next to him, comforting him. Rachel Dare still looked a little shaken. She glanced back at Chiron for guidance, but the centaur stood grim and silent, as if he were watching a play he couldn't interrupt-a tragedy that ended with a lot of people dead onstage. "Well," Rachel said, trying to regain her composure. "So, yeah, that's the Great Prophecy. We hoped it might not happen for years, but I fear it's starting now. I can't give you proof. It's just a feeling. And like Drew said, some weird stuff is happening. The seven demigods, whoever they are, have not been gathered yet. I get the feeling some are here tonight. Some are not here." The campers began to stir and mutter, looking at each other nervously, until a drowsy voice in the crowd called out, "I'm here! Oh _ were you calling roll?" "Go back to sleep, Clovis," someone yelled, and a lot of people laughed. "Anyway," Rachel continued, "we don't know what the Great Prophecy means. We don't know what challenge the demigods will face, but since the first Great Prophecy predicted the Titan War, we can guess the second Great Prophecy will predict something at least that bad." "Or worse," Chiron murmured. Maybe he didn't mean everyone to overhear, but they did. The campfire immediately turned dark purple, the same color as Piper's dream. "What we do know," Rachel said, "is that the first phase has begun. A major problem has arisen, and we need a quest to solve it. Hera, the queen of the gods, has been taken." Shocked silence. Then fifty demigods started talking at once.Chiron pounded his hoof again, but Rachel still had to wait before she could get back their attention. She told them about the incident on the Grand Canyon skywalk-how Gleeson Hedge had sacrificed himself when the storm spirits attacked, and the spirits had warned it was only the beginning. They apparently served some great mistress who would destroy all demigods. Then Rachel told them about Piper passing out in Hera's cabin. Piper tried to keep a calm expression, even when she noticed Drew in the back row, pantomiming a faint, and her friends giggling. Finally Rachel told them about Jason's vision in the living room of the Big House. The message Hera had delivered there was so similar that Piper got a chill. The only difference: Hera had warned Piper not to betray her: Bow to his will, and their king shall rise, dooming us all. Hera knew about the giant's threat. But if that was true, why hadn't she warned Jason, and exposed Piper as an enemy agent? "Jason," Rachel said. "Um _ do you remember your last name?" He looked self-conscious, but he shook his head. "We'll just call you Jason, then," Rachel said. "It's clear Hera herself has issued you a quest." Rachel paused, as if giving Jason a chance to protest his destiny. Everyone's eyes were on him; there was so much pressure, Piper thought she would've buckled in his position. Yet he looked brave and determined. He set his jaw and nodded. "I agree." "You must save Hera to prevent a great evil," Rachel continued. "Some sort of king from rising. For reasons we don't yet understand, it must happen by the winter solstice, only four days from now." "That's the council day of the gods," Annabeth said. "If the gods don't already know Hera's gone, they will definitely notice her absence by then. They'll probably break out fighting, accusing each other of taking her. That's what they usually do." "The winter solstice," Chiron spoke up, "is also the time of greatest darkness. The gods gather that day, as mortals always have, because there is strength in numbers. The solstice is a day when evil magic is strong. Ancient magic, older than the gods. It is a day when things _ stir." The way he said it, stirring sounded absolutely sinister -like it should be a first-degree felony, not something you did to cookie dough. "Okay," Annabeth said, glaring at the centaur. "Thank you, Captain Sunshine. Whatever's going on, I agree with Rachel. Jason has been chosen to lead this quest, so-" "Why hasn't he been claimed?" somebody yelled from the Ares cabin. "If he's so important-" "He has been claimed," Chiron announced. "Long ago. Jason, give them a demonstration." At first, Jason didn't seem to understand. He stepped forward nervously, but Piper couldn't help thinking how amazing he looked with his blond hair glowing in the firelight, his regal features like a Roman statue's. He glanced at Piper, and she nodded encouragingly. She mimicked flipping a coin. Jason reached into his pocket. His coin flashed in the air, and when he caught it in his hand, he was holding a lance-a rod of gold about seven feet long, with a spear tip at one end. The other demigods gasped. Rachel and Annabeth stepped back to avoid the point, which looked sharp as an ice pick."Wasn't that _" Annabeth hesitated. "I thought you had a sword." "Um, it came up tails, I think," Jason said. "Same coin, long-range weapon form." "Dude, Iwant one!" yelled somebody from Ares cabin. "Better than Clarisse's electric spear, Lamer!" one of his brothers agreed. "Electric," Jason murmured, like that was a good idea. "Back away." Annabeth and Rachel got the message. Jason raised his javelin, and thunder broke open the sky. Every hair on Piper's arms stood straight up. Lightning arced down through the golden spear point and hit the campfire with the force of an artillery shell. When the smoke cleared, and the ringing in Piper's ears subsided, the entire camp sat frozen in shock, half blind, covered in ashes, staring at the place where the fire had been. Cinders rained down everywhere. A burning log had impaled itself a few inches from the sleeping kid Clovis, who hadn't even stirred. Jason lowered his lance. "Um _ sorry." Chiron brushed some burning coals out of his beard. He grimaced as if his worst fears had been confirmed. "A little overkill, perhaps, but you've made your point. And I believe we know who your father is." "Jupiter," Jason said. "Imean Zeus. Lord of the Sky." Piper couldn't help smiling. It made perfect sense. The most powerful god, the father of all the greatest heroes in the ancient myths-no one else could possibly be Jason's dad. Apparently, the rest of the camp wasn't so sure. Everything broke into chaos, with dozens of people asking questions until Annabeth raised her arms. "Hold it!" she said. "How can he be the son of Zeus? The Big Three _ their pact not to have mortal kids _ how could we not have known about him sooner?" Chiron didn't answer, but Piper got the feeling he knew. And the truth was not good. "The important thing," Rachel said, "is that Jason's here now. He has a quest to fulfill, which means he will need his own prophecy." She closed her eyes and swooned. Two campers rushed forward and caught her. A third ran to the side of the amphitheater and grabbed a bronze three-legged stool, like they'd been trained for this duty. They eased Rachel onto the stool in front of the ruined hearth. Without the fire, the night was dark, but green mist started swirling around Rachel's feet. When she opened her eyes, they were glowing. Emerald smoke issued from her mouth. The voice that came out was raspy and ancient-the sound a snake would make if it could talk:"Child of lightning, beware the earth, The giants'revenge the seven shall birth, The forge and dove shall break the cage,And death unleash through Hera's rage." On the last word, Rachel collapsed, but her helpers were waiting to catch her. They carried her away from the hearth and laid her in the corner to rest. "Is that normal?" Piper asked. Then she realized she'd spoken into the silence, and everyone was looking at her. "I mean_ does she spew green smoke a lot?" "Gods, you're dense!" Drew sneered. "She just issued a prophecy-Jason's prophecy to save Hera! Why don't you just-" "Drew," Annabeth snapped. "Piper asked a fair question. Something about that prophecy definitely isn't normal. If breaking Hera's cage unleashes her rage and causes a bunch of death _ why would we free her? It might be a trap, or-or maybe Hera will turn on her rescuers. She's never been kind to heroes." Jason rose. "I don't have much choice. Hera took my memory. I need it back. Besides, we can't just not help the queen of the heavens if she's in trouble." A girl from Hephaestus cabin stood up-Nyssa, the one with the red bandanna. "Maybe. But you should listen to Annabeth. Hera can be vengeful. She threw her own son-our dad-down a mountain just because he was ugly." "Real ugly," snickered someone from Aphrodite. "Shut up!" Nyssa growled. "Anyway, we've also got to think -why beware the earth? And what's the giants' revenge? What are we dealing with here that's powerful enough to kidnap the queen of the heavens?" No one answered, but Piper noticed Annabeth and Chiron having a silent exchange. Piper thought it went something like: Annabeth: The giants'revenge _ no, it can't be. Chiron: Don't speak of it here. Don't scare them. Annabeth: You're kidding me! We can't be that unlucky. Chiron: Later, child. If you told them everything, they would be too terrified to proceed. Piper knew it was crazy to think she could read their expressions so well-two people she barely knew. But she was absolutely positive she understood them, and it scared the jujubes out of her. Annabeth took a deep breath. "It's Jason's quest," she announced, "so it's Jason's choice. Obviously, he's the child of lightning. According to tradition, he may choose any two companions." Someone from the Hermes cabin yelled, "Well, you, obviously,Annabeth. You've got the most experience." "No, Travis," Annabeth said. helping Hera. "First off, I'mEvery time I've tried, she's deceived me, or it's come back to bite me later. Forget it. No way. Secondly, I'm leaving first thing in the morning to find Percy." "It's connected," Piper blurted out, not sure how she got the courage. "You know that's true, don't you? This whole business, your boyfriend's disappearance-it's all connected." "How?" demanded Drew. "If you're so smart, how?" Piper tried to form an answer, but she couldn't. Annabeth saved her. "You may be right, Piper. If this is connected, I'll find out from the other end-by searching for Percy. As I said, I'm not about to rush off to rescue Hera, even if her disappearance sets the rest of the Olympians fighting again. But there's another reason I can't go. The prophecy says otherwise." "It says who I pick," Jason agreed. "The forge and dove shall break the cage. The forge is the symbol of Vul -Hephaestus." Under the Cabin Nine banner, Nyssa's shoulders slumped, like she'd just been given a heavy anvil to carry. "If you have to beware the earth," she said, "you should avoid traveling overland. You'll need air transport." Piper was about to call out that Jason could fly. But then she thought better of it. That was for Jason to tell them, and he wasn't volunteering the information. Maybe he figured he'd freaked them out enough for one night. "The flying chariot's broken," Nyssa continued, "and the pegasi, we're using them to search for Percy. But maybe Hephaestus cabin can help figure out something else to help. With Jake incapacitated, I'm senior camper. I can volunteer for the quest." She didn't sound enthusiastic. Then Leo stood up. He'd been so quiet, Piper had almost forgotten he was there, which was totally not like Leo. "It's me," he said. His cabinmates stirred. Several tried to pull him back to his seat, but Leo resisted. "No, it's me. I know it is. I've got an idea for the transportation problem. Let me try. I can fix this!" Jason studied him for a moment. Piper was sure he was going to tell Leo no. Then he smiled. "We started this together, Leo. Seems only right you come along. You find us a ride, you're in." "Yes!" Leo pumped his fist. "It'll be dangerous," Nyssa warned him. "Hardship, monsters, terrible suffering. Possibly none of you will come back alive." "Oh." Suddenly Leo didn't look so excited. Then he remembered everyone was watching. "I mean _ Oh, cool! Suffering? I love suffering! Let's do this." Annabeth nodded. "Then, Jason, you only need to choose the third quest member. The dove-" "Oh, absolutely!" Drew was on her feet and flashing Jason a smile. "The dove is Aphrodite. Everybody knows that. I am totally yours." Piper's hands clenched. She stepped forward. "No." Drew rolled her eyes. "Oh, please, Dumpster girl. Back off." "I had the vision of Hera; not you. I have to do this." "Anyone can have a vision," Drew said. "You were just at the right place at the right time." She turned to Jason. "Look, fighting is all fine, I suppose. And people who build things _" She looked at Leo in disdain. "Well, I suppose someone has to get their hands dirty. But you need charm on your side. I can be very persuasive. I could help a lot." The campers started murmuring about how Drew was pretty persuasive. Piper could see Drew winning them over. Even Chiron was scratching his beard, like Drew's participation suddenly made sense to him. "Well _" Annabeth said. "Given the wording of the prophecy-" "No!" Piper's own voice sounded strange in her ears -more insistent, richer in tone. "I'm supposed to go." Then the weirdest thing happened. Everyone started nodding, muttering that hmm, Piper's point of view made sense too. Drew looked around, incredulous. Even some of her own campers were nodding. "Get over it!" Drew snapped at the crowd. "What can Piper do?"Piper tried to respond, but her confidence started to wane. What could she offer? She wasn't a fighter, or a planner, or a fixer. She had no skills except getting into trouble and occasionally convincing people to do stupid things. Plus, she was a liar. She needed to go on this quest for reasons that went way beyond Jason-and if she did go, she'd end up betraying everyone there. She heard that voice from the dream: Do our bidding, and you may walk away alive. How could she make a choice like that-between helping her father and helping Jason? "Well," Drew said smugly, "I guess that settles it." Suddenly there was collective gasp. Everyone stared at Piper like she'd just exploded. She wondered what she'd done wrong. Then she realized there was a reddish glow around her. "What?" she demanded. She looked above her, but there was no burning symbol like the one that appeared over Leo. Then she looked down and yelped. Her clothes _ what in the world was she wearing? She despised dresses. She didn't own a dress. But now she was adorned in a beautiful white sleeveless gown that went down to her ankles, with a V-neck so low it was totally embarrassing. Delicate gold armbands circled her biceps. An intricate necklace of amber, coral, and gold flowers glittered on her chest, and her hair _ "Oh, god," she said. "What's happened?" A stunned Annabeth pointed at Piper's dagger, which was now oiled and gleaming, hanging at her side on a golden cord. Piper didn't want to draw it. She was afraid of what she would see. But her curiosity won out. She unsheathed Katoptris and stared at her reflection in the polished metal blade. Her hair was perfect: lush and long and chocolate brown, braided with gold ribbons down one side so it fell across her shoulder. She even wore makeup, better than Piper would ever know how to do herself-subtle touches that made her lips cherry red and brought out all the different colors in her eyes. She was...she was... "Beautiful," Jason exclaimed. "Piper, you _ you're a knockout." Under different circumstances, that would've been the happiest moment of her life. But now everyone was staring at her like she was a freak. Drew's face was full of horror and revulsion. "No!" she cried. "Not possible!" "This isn't me," Piper protested. "I-don't understand." Chiron the centaur folded his front legs and bowed to her, and all the campers followed his example. "Hail, Piper McLean," Chiron announced gravely, as if he were speaking at her funeral. "Daughter of Aphrodite, lady of the doves, goddess of love." L PIPER amazing and all-She's got makeup! It's a miracle! -but Leo had problems to deal with. He ducked out of the amphitheater and ran into the darkness, wondering what he'd gotten himself into.He'd stood up in front of a bunch of stronger, braver demigods and volunteered-volunteered-for a mission that would probably get him killed. He hadn't mentioned seeing Tia Callida, his old babysitter, but as soon as he'd heard about Jason's vision-the lady in the black dress and shawl-Leo knew it was the same woman. Tia Callida was Hera. His evil babysitter was the queen of the gods. Stuff like that could really deep-fry your brain. He trudged toward the woods and tried not to think about his childhood-all the messed-up things that had led to his mother's death. But he couldn't help it. * * * The first time Tia Callida tried to kill him, he must've been about two. Tia Callida was looking after him while his mother was at the machine shop. She wasn't really his aunt, of course -just one of the old women in the community, a generic tia who helped watch the kids. She smelled like a honey-baked ham, and always wore a widow's dress with a black shawl. "Let's set you down for a nap," she said. "Let's see if you are my brave little hero, eh?" Leo was sleepy. She nestled him into his blankets in a warm mound of red and yellow-pillows? The bed was like a cubbyhole in the wall, made of blackened bricks, with a metal slot over his head and a square hole far above, where he could see the stars. He remembered resting comfortably, grabbing at sparks like fireflies. He dozed, and dreamed of a boat made of fire, sailing through the cinders. He imagined himself on board, navigating the sky. Somewhere nearby, Tia Callida sat in her rocking chair-creak, creak, creak-and sang a lullaby. Even at two, Leo knew the difference between English and Spanish, and he remembered being puzzled because Tia Callida was singing in a language that was neither. Everything was fine until his mother came home. She screamed and raced over to snatch him up, yelling at Tia Callida, "How could you?" But the old lady had disappeared. Leo remembered looking over his mother's shoulder at the flames curling around his blankets. Only years later had he realized he'd been sleeping in a blazing fireplace. The weirdest thing? Tia Callida hadn't been arrested or even banished from their house. She appeared again several times over the next few years. Once when Leo was three, she let him play with knives. "You must learn your blades early," she insisted, "if you are to be my hero someday." Leo managed not to kill himself, but he got the feeling Tia Callida wouldn't have cared one way or the other. When Leo was four, Tia found a rattlesnake for him in a nearby cow pasture. She gave him a stick and encouraged him to poke the animal. "Where is your bravery, little hero? Show me the Fates were right to choose you." Leo stared down at those amber eyes, hearing the dry shh-shh-ssh of the snake's rattle. He couldn't bring himself to poke the snake. It didn't seem fair. Apparently the snake felt the same way about biting a little kid. Leo could've sworn it looked at Tia Callida like, Are you nuts, lady? Then it disappeared into the tall grass. The last time she babysat him, Leo was five. She brought him a pack of crayons and a pad of paper. They sat together at the picnic table in back of the apartment complex, under an old pecan tree. While Tia Callida sang her strange songs, Leo drew a picture of the boat he'd seen in the flames, with colorful sails and rows of oars, a curved stern, and an awesome masthead. When he was almost done, about to sign his name the way he'd learned in kindergarten, a wind snatched the picture away. It flew into the sky and disappeared. Leo wanted to cry. He'd spent so much time on that picture -but Tia Callida just clucked with disappointment. "It isn't time yet, little hero. Someday, you'll have your quest. You'll find your destiny, and your hard journey will finally make sense. But first you must face many sorrows. I regret that, but heroes cannot be shaped any other way. Now, make me a fire, eh? Warm these old bones." A few minutes later, Leo's mom came out and shrieked with horror. Tia Callida was gone, but Leo sat in the middle of a smoking fire. The pad of paper was reduced to ashes. Crayons had melted into a bubbling puddle of multicolored goo, and Leo's hands were ablaze, slowly burning through the picnic table. For years afterward, people in the apartment complex would wonder how someone had seared the impressions of a five-year-old's hands an inch deep into solid wood. Now Leo was sure that Tia Callida, his psychotic babysitter, had been Hera all along. That made her, what-his godly grandmother? His family was even more messed up than he realized. He wondered if his mother had known the truth. Leo remembered after that last visit, his mom took him inside and had a long talk with him, but he only understood some of it. "She can't come back again." His mom had a beautiful face with kind eyes, and curly dark hair, but she looked older than she was because of hard work. The lines around her eyes were deeply etched. Her hands were callused. She was the first person from their family to graduate from college. She had a degree in mechanical engineering and could design anything, fix anything, build anything. No one would hire her. No company would take her seriously, so she ended up in the machine shop, trying to make enough money to support the two of them. She always smelled of machine oil, and when she talked with Leo, she switched from Spanish to English constantly-using them like complementary tools. It took Leo years to realize that not everyone spoke that way. She'd even taught him Morse code as a kind of game, so they could tap messages to each other when they were in different rooms: I love you. You okay? Simple things like that. "I don't care what Callida says," his mom told him. "I don't care about destiny and the Fates. You're too young for that. You're still my baby." She took his hands, looking for burn marks, but of course there weren't any. "Leo, listen to me. Fire is a tool, like anything else, but it's more dangerous than most. You don't know your limits. Please, promise me-no more fire until you meet your father. Someday, mijo, you wi l l meet him. He'll explain everything." Leo had heard that since he could remember. Someday he would meet his dad. His mom wouldn't answer any questions about him. Leo had never met him, never even seen pictures, but she talked like he'd just gone to the store for some milk and he'd be back any minute. Leo tried to believe her. Someday, everything would make sense. For the next couple of years, they were happy. Leo almost forgot about Tia Callida. He still dreamed of the flying boat, but the other strange events seemed like a dream too. It all came apart when he was eight. By then, he was spending every free hour at the shop with his mom. He knew how to use the machines. He could measure and do math better than most adults. He'd learned to think three- dimensionally, solving mechanical problems in his head the way his mom did. One night, they stayed late because his mom was finishing a drill bit design she hoped to patent. If she could sell the prototype, it might change their lives. She'd finally get a break. As she worked, Leo passed her supplies and told her corny jokes, trying to keep her spirits up. He loved it when he could make her laugh. She'd smile and say, "Your father would be proud of you, mijo. You'll meet him soon, I'm sure." Mom's workspace was at the very back of the shop. It was kind of creepy at night, because they were the only ones there. Every sound echoed through the dark warehouse, but Leo didn't mind as long as he was with his mom. If he did wander the shop, they could always keep in touch with Morse code taps. Whenever they were ready to leave, they had to walk through the entire shop, through the break room, and out to the parking lot, locking the doors behind them. That night after finishing up, they'd just gotten to the break room when his mom realized she didn't have her keys. "That's funny." She frowned. "I know I had them. Wait here, mijo. I'll only be a minute." She gave him one more smile-the last one he'd ever get -and she went back into the warehouse. She'd only been gone a few heartbeats when the interior door slammed shut. Then the exterior door locked itself. "Mom?" Leo's heart pounded. Something heavy crashed inside the warehouse. He ran to the door, but no matter how hard he pulled or kicked, it wouldn't open. "Mom!" Frantically, he tapped a message on the wall: You okay? "She can't hear you," a voice said. Leo turned and found himself facing a strange woman. At first he thought it was Tia Callida. She was wrapped in black robes, with a veil covering her face. "Tia?" he said. The woman chuckled, a slow gentle sound, as if she were half asleep. "I am not your guardian. Merely a family resemblance." "What-what do you want? Where's my mom?" "Ah _ loyal to your mother. How nice. But you see, I have children too _ and I understand you will fight them someday. When they try to wake me, you will prevent them. I cannot allow that." "I don't know you. I don't want to fight anybody." She muttered like a sleepwalker in a trance, "A wise choice." With a chill, Leo realized the woman was, in fact, asleep. Behind the veil, her eyes were closed. But even stranger: her clothes were not made of cloth. They were made of earth-dry black dirt, churning and shifting around her. Her pale, sleeping face was barely visible behind a curtain of dust, and he had the horrible sense that she'd had just risen from the grave. If the woman was asleep, Leo wanted her to stay that way. He knew that fully awake, she would be even more terrible. "I cannot destroy you yet," the woman murmured. "The Fates will not allow it. But they not do protect your mother, and they cannot stop me from breaking your spirit. Remember this night, little hero, when they ask you to oppose me." "Leave my mother alone!" Fear rose in his throat as the woman shuffled forward. She moved more like an avalanche than a person, a dark wall of earth shifting toward him. "How will you stop me?" she whispered. She walked straight through a table, the particles of her body reassembling on the other side. She loomed over Leo, and he knew she would pass right through him, too. He was the only thing between her and his mother. His hands caught fire. A sleepy smile spread across the woman's face, as if she'd already won. Leo screamed with desperation. His vision turned red. Flames washed over the earthen woman, the walls, the locked doors.And Leo lost consciousness. When he woke, he was in an ambulance. The paramedic tried to be kind. She told him the warehouse had burned down. His mother hadn't made it out. The paramedic said she was sorry, but Leo felt hollow. He'd lost control, just like his mother had warned. Her death was his fault.Soon the police came to get him, and they weren't as nice. The fire had started in the break room, they said, right where Leo was standing. He'd survived by some miracle, but what kind of child locked the doors of his mother's workplace, knowing she was inside, and started a fire? Later, his neighbors at the apartment complex told the police what a strange boy he was. They talked about the burned handprints on the picnic table. They'd always known something was wrong with Esperanza Valdez's son. His relatives wouldn't take him in. His Aunt Rosa called him a diablo and shouted at the social workers to take him away. So Leo went to his first foster home. A few days later, he ran away. Some foster homes lasted longer than others. He would joke around, make a few friends, pretend that nothing bothered him, but he always ended up running sooner or later. It was the only thing that made the pain better-feeling like he was moving, getting farther and farther away from the ashes of that machine shop. He'd promised himself he would never play with fire again. He hadn't thought about Tia Callida, or the sleeping woman wrapped in earthen robes, for a long time. He was almost to the woods when he imagined Tia Callida's voice: It wasn't your fault, little hero. Our enemy wakes. It's time to stop running. "Hera," Leo muttered, "you're not even here, are you? You're in a cage somewhere." There was no answer. But now, at least, Leo understood something. Hera had been watching him his entire life. Somehow, she'd known that one day she would need him. Maybe those Fates she mentioned could tell the future. Leo wasn't sure. But he knew he was meant to go on this quest. Jason's prophecy warned them to beware the earth, and Leo knew it had something to do with that sleeping woman in the shop, wrapped in robes of shifting dirt. You'll find your destiny, Tia Callida had promised, and your hard journey will finally make sense. Leo might find out what that flying boat in his dreams meant. He might meet his father, or even get to avenge his mother's death. But first things first. He'd promised Jason a flying ride. Not the boat from his dreams-not yet. There wasn't time to build something that complicated. He needed a quicker solution. He needed a dragon. He hesitated at the edge of the woods, peering into absolute blackness. Owls hooted, and something far away hissed like a chorus of snakes. Leo remembered what Will Solace had told him: No one should go in the woods alone, definitely not unarmed. Leo had nothing-no sword, no flashlight, no help. He glanced back at the lights of the cabins. He could turn around now and tell everyone he'd been joking. Psych! Nyssa could go on the quest instead. He could stay at camp and learn to be part of the Hephaestus cabin, but he wondered how long it would be before he looked like his bunkmates-sad, dejected, convinced of his own bad luck. They cannot stop me from breaking your spirit, the sleeping woman had said. Remember this night, little hero, when they ask you to oppose me. "Believe me, lady," Leo muttered, "I remember. And whoever you are, I'm gonna face-plant you hard, Leo-style." He took a deep breath and plunged into the forest. THE WOODS WEREN'T LIKE ANYPLACE he'd been before. Leo had been raised in a north Houston apartment complex. The wildest things he'd ever seen were that rattlesnake in the cowpasture and his Aunt Rosa in her nightgown, until he was sent to Wilderness School. Even there, the school had been in the desert. No trees with gnarled roots to trip over. No streams to fall into. No branches casting dark, creepy shadows and owls looking down at him with their big reflective eyes. This was the Twilight Zone. He stumbled along until he was sure no one back at the cabins could possibly see him. Then he summoned fire. Flames danced along his fingertips, casting enough light to see. He hadn't tried to keep a sustained burn going since he was five, at that picnic table. Since his mom's death, he'd been too afraid to try anything. Even this tiny fire made him feel guilty. He kept walking, looking for dragon-type clues-giant footprints, trampled trees, swaths of burning forest. Something that big couldn't exactly sneak around, right? But he saw nada. Once he glimpsed a large, furry shape like a wolf or a bear, but it stayed away from his fire, which was fine by Leo. Then, at the bottom of a clearing, he saw the first trap-a hundred-foot-wide crater ringed with boulders. Leo had to admit it was pretty ingenious. In the center of the depression, a metal vat the size of a hot tub had been filled with bubbly dark liquid-Tabasco sauce and motor oil. On a pedestal suspended over the vat, an electric fan rotated in a circle, spreading the fumes across the forest. Could metal dragons smell? The vat seemed to be unguarded. But Leo looked closely, and in the dim light of the stars and his handheld fire, he could see the glint of metal beneath the dirt and leaves-a bronze net lining the entire crater. Or maybe see wasn't the right word -he could sense it there, as if the mechanism was emitting heat, revealing itself to him. Six large strips of bronze stretched out from the vat like the spokes of a wheel. They would be pressure sensitive, Leo guessed. As soon as the dragon stepped on one, the net would spring closed, and voila-one gift-wrapped monster. Leo edged closer. He put his foot on the nearest trigger strip. As he expected, nothing happened. They had to have set the net for something really heavy. Otherwise they could catch an animal, human, smaller monster, whatever. He doubted there was anything else as heavy as a metal dragon in these woods.At least, he hoped there wasn't. He picked his way down the crater and approached the vat. The fumes were almost overpowering, and his eyes started watering. He remembered a time when Tia Callida (Hera, whatever) had made him chop jalapenos in the kitchen and he'd gotten the juice in his eyes. Serious pain. But of course she'd been like, "Endure it, little hero. The Aztecs of your mother's homeland used to punish bad children by holding them over a fire filled with chili peppers. They raised many heroes that way." A total psycho, that lady. Leo was so glad he was on a quest to rescue her. Tia Callida would've loved this vat, because it was way worse than jalapeno juice. Leo looked for a trigger -something that would disable the net. He didn't see anything. He had a moment of panic. Nyssa had said there were several traps like this in the woods, and they were planning more. What if the dragon had already stepped into another one? How could Leo possibly find them all? He continued to search, but he didn't see any release mechanism. No large button labeled off. It occurred to him that there might not be one. He started to despair-and then he heard the sound. It was more of a tremor-the deep sort of rumbling you hear in your gut rather than your ears. It gave him the jitters, but he didn't look around for the source. He just kept examining the trap, thinking, Must be a long way off. It's pounding its way through the woods. I gotta hurry. Then he heard a grinding snort, like steam forced out of a metal barrel. His neck tingled. He turned slowly. At the edge of the pit, fifty feet away, two glowing red eyes were staring at him. The creature gleamed in the moonlight, and Leo couldn't believe something that huge had sneaked up on him so fast. Too late, he realized its gaze was fixed on the fire in his hand, and he extinguished the flames. He could still see the dragon just fine. It was about sixty feet long, snout to tail, its body made of interlocking bronze plates. Its claws were the size of butcher knives, and its mouth was lined with hundreds of dagger-sharp metal teeth. Steamcame out of its nostrils. It snarled like a chain saw cutting through a tree. It could've bitten Leo in half, easy, or stomped him flat. It was the most beautiful thing he'd ever seen, except for one problem that completely ruined Leo's plan. "You don't have wings," Leo said. The dragon's snarl died. It tilted its head as if to say, Why aren't you running away in terror? "Hey, no offense," Leo said. "You're amazing! Good god, who made you? Are you hydraulic or nuclear-powered or what? But if it was me, I would've put wings on you. What kind of dragon doesn't have wings? I guess maybe you're too heavy to fly? I should've thought of that." The dragon snorted, more confused now. It was supposed to trample Leo. This conversation thing wasn't part of the plan. It took a step forward, and Leo shouted, "No!" The dragon snarled again. "It's a trap, bronze brain," Leo said. "They're trying to catch you." The dragon opened its mouth and blew fire. A column of white-hot flames billowed over Leo, more than he'd ever tried to endure before. He felt as if he were being hosed down with a powerful, very hot fire hose. It stung a little, but he stood his ground. When the flames died, he was perfectly fine. Even his clothes were okay, which Leo didn't understand, but for which he was grateful. He liked his army jacket, and having his pants seared off would've been pretty embarrassing. The dragon stared at Leo. Its face didn't actually change, being made of metal and all, but Leo thought he could read its expression: Why no crispy critter? A spark flew out of its neck like it was about to short-circuit. "You can't burn me," Leo said, trying to sound stern and calm. He'd never had a dog before, but he talked to the dragon the way he thought you'd talk to a dog. "Stay, boy. Don't come any closer. I don't want you to get caught. See, they think you're broken and have to be scrapped. But I don't believe that. I can fix you if you'll let me-" The dragon creaked, roared, and charged. The trap sprang. The floor of the crater erupted with a sound like a thousand trash can lids banging together. Dirt and leaves flew, thousand trash can lids banging together. Dirt and leaves flew, metal net flashing. Leo was knocked off his feet, turned upside down, and doused in Tabasco sauce and oil. He found himself sandwiched between the vat and the dragon as it thrashed, trying to free itself from the net that had wrapped around themboth. The dragon blew flames in every direction, lighting up the sky and setting trees on fire. Oil and sauce burned all over them. It didn't hurt Leo, but it left a nasty taste in his mouth. "Will you stop that!" he yelled. The dragon kept squirming. Leo realized he would get crushed if he didn't move. It wasn't easy, but he managed to wriggle out from between the dragon and the vat. He squirmed his way through the net. Fortunately the holes were plenty big enough for a skinny kid. He ran to the dragon's head. It tried to snap at him, but its teeth were tangled in the mesh. It blew fire again, but seemed to be running out of energy. This time the flames were only orange. They sputtered before they even reached Leo's face. "Listen, man," Leo said, "you're just going to show themwhere you are. Then they'll come and break out the acid and the metal cutters. Is that what you want?" The dragon's jaw made a creaking sound, like it was trying to talk. "Okay, then," Leo said. "You'll have to trust me." And Leo set to work. It took him almost an hour to find the control panel. It was right behind the dragon's head, which made sense. He'd elected to keep the dragon in the net, because it was easier to work with the dragon constrained, but the dragon didn't like it. "Hold still!" Leo scolded. The dragon made another creaking sound that might've been a whimper. Leo examined the wires inside the dragon's head. He was distracted by a sound in the woods, but when he looked up it was just a tree spirit-a dryad, Leo thought they were called -putting out the flames in her branches. Fortunately, the dragon hadn't started an all-out forest fire, but still the dryad wasn't too pleased. The girl's dress was smoking. She smothered the flames with a silky blanket, and when she sawLeo looking at her, she made a gesture that was probably very rude in Dryad. Then she disappeared in a green poof of mist. Leo returned his attention to the wiring. It was ingenious, definitely, and it made sense to him. This was the motor control relay. This processed sensory input from the eyes. This disk _"Ha," he said. "Well, no wonder." Creak? the dragon asked with its jaw. "You've got a corroded control disk. Probably regulates your higher reasoning circuits, right? Rusty brain, man. No wonder you're a little _ confused." He almost said crazy, but he caught himself. "I wish I had a replacement disk, but _this is a complicated piece of circuitry. I'm gonna have to take it out and clean it. Only be a minute." He pulled out the disk, and the dragon went absolutely still. The glow died in its eyes. Leo slid off its back and began polishing the disk. He mopped up some oil and Tabasco sauce with his sleeve, which helped cut through the grime, but the more he cleaned, the more concerned he got. Some of the circuits were beyond repair. He could make it better, but not perfect. For that, he'd need a completely new disk, and he had no idea how to build one. He tried to work quickly. He wasn't sure how long the dragon's control disk could be off without damaging it-maybe forever-but he didn't want to take chances. Once he'd done the best he could, he climbed back up to the dragon's head and started cleaning the wiring and gearboxes, getting himself filthy in the process. "Clean hands, dirty equipment," he muttered, something his mother used to say. By the time he was through, his hands were black with grease and his clothes looked like he'd just lost a mud-wrestling contest, but the mechanisms looked a lot better. He slipped in the disk, connected the last wire, and sparks flew. The dragon shuddered. Its eyes began to glow. "Better?" Leo asked. The dragon made a sound like a high-speed drill. It opened its mouth and all its teeth rotated. "I guess that's a yes. Hold on, I'll free you." Another thirty minutes to find the release clamps for the net and untangle the dragon, but finally it stood and shook the last bit of netting off its back. It roared triumphantly and shot fire at bit of netting off its back. It roared triumphantly and shot fire at the sky. "Seriously," Leo said. "Could you not show off?" Creak? the dragon asked. "You need a name," Leo decided. "I'm calling you Festus." The dragon whirred its teeth and grinned. At least Leo hoped it was a grin. "Cool," Leo said. "But we still have a problem, because you don't have wings." Festus tilted his head and snorted steam. Then he lowered his back in an unmistakable gesture. He wanted Leo to climb on. "Where we going?" Leo asked. But he was too excited to wait for an answer. He climbed onto the dragon's back, and Festus bounded off into the woods. * * * Leo lost track of time and all sense of direction. It seemed impossible the woods could be so deep and wild, but the dragon traveled until the trees were like skyscrapers and the canopy of leaves completely blotted out the stars. Even the fire in Leo's hand couldn't have lit the way, but the dragon's glowing red eyes acted like headlights. Finally they crossed a stream and came to a dead end, a limestone cliff a hundred feet tall-a solid, sheer mass the dragon couldn't possibly climb. Festus stopped at the base and lifted one leg like a dog pointing. "What is it?" Leo slid to the ground. He walked up to the cliff-nothing but solid rock. The dragon kept pointing. "It's not going to move out of your way," Leo told him. The loose wire in the dragon's neck sparked, but otherwise he stayed still. Leo put his hand on the cliff. Suddenly his fingers smoldered. Lines of fire spread from his fingertips like ignited gunpowder, sizzling across the limestone. The burning lines raced across the cliff face until they had outlined a glowing red door five times as tall as Leo. He backed up and the door swung open, disturbingly silently for such a big slab of rock. "Perfectly balanced," he muttered. "That's some first-rate engineering." The dragon unfroze and marched inside, as if he were coming home. Leo stepped through, and the door began to close. He had a moment of panic, remembering that night in the machine shop long ago, when he'd been locked in. What if he got stuck in here? But then lights flickered on-a combination of electric fluorescents and wall-mounted torches. When Leo saw the cavern, he forgot about leaving. "Festus," he muttered. "What is this place?" The dragon stomped to the center of the room, leaving tracks in the thick dust, and curled up on a large circular platform. The cave was the size of an airplane hangar, with endless worktables and storage cages, rows of garage-sized doors along either wall, and staircases that led up to a network of catwalks high above. Equipment was everywhere-hydraulic lifts, welding torches, hazard suits, air-spades, forklifts, plus something that looked suspiciously like a nuclear reaction chamber. Bulletin boards were covered with tattered, faded blueprints. And weapons, armor, shields-war supplies all over the place, a lot of them only partially finished. Hanging from chains far above the dragon's platform was an old tattered banner almost too faded to read. The letters were Greek, but Leo somehow knew what they said: bunker 9. Did that mean nine as in the Hephaestus cabin, or nine as in there were eight others? Leo looked at Festus, still curled up on the platform, and it occurred to him that the dragon looked so content because it was home. It had probably been built on that pad. "Do the other kids know _ ?" Leo's question died as he asked it. Clearly, this place had been abandoned for decades. Cobwebs and dust covered everything. The floor revealed no footprints except for his, and the huge paw prints of the dragon. He was the first one in this bunker since _ since a long time ago. Bunker 9 had been abandoned with a lot of projects half finished on the tables. Locked up and forgotten, but why? Leo looked at a map on the wall-a battle map of camp, but the paper was as cracked and yellow as onionskin. A date at the bottom read, 1864. "No way," he muttered. Then he spotted a blueprint on a nearby bulletin board, and his heart almost leaped out of his throat. He ran to the worktable and stared up at a white-line drawing almost faded beyond recognition: a Greek ship from several different angles. Faintly scrawled words underneath it read: prophecy? unclear. flight? It was the ship he'd seen in his dreams-the flying ship. Someone had tried to build it here, or at least sketched out the idea. Then it was left, forgotten _ a prophecy yet to come.And weirdest of all, the ship's masthead was exactly like the one Leo had drawn when he was five-the head of a dragon. "Looks like you, Festus," he murmured. "That's creepy." The masthead gave him an uneasy feeling, but Leo's mind spun with too many other questions to think about it for long. He touched the blueprint, hoping he could take it down to study, but the paper crackled at his touch, so he left it alone. He looked around for other clues. No boats. No pieces that looked like parts of this project, but there were so many doors and storerooms to explore. Festus snorted like he was trying to get Leo's attention, reminding him they didn't have all night. It was true. Leo figured it would be morning in a few hours, and he'd gotten completely sidetracked. He'd saved the dragon, but it wasn't going to help him on the quest. He needed something that would fly. Festus nudged something toward him-a leather tool belt that had been left next to his construction pad. Then the dragon switched on his glowing red eye beams and turned themtoward the ceiling. Leo looked up to where the spotlights were pointing, and yelped when he recognized the shapes hanging above them in the darkness. "Festus," he said in a small voice. "We've got work to do." JASONDREAMEDOFWOLVES. He stood in a clearing in the middle of a redwood forest. In front of him rose the ruins of a stone mansion. Low gray clouds blended with the ground fog, and cold rain hung in the air. A pack of large gray beasts milled around him, brushing against his legs, snarling and baring their teeth. They gently nudged him toward the ruins. Jason had no desire to become the world's largest dog biscuit, so he decided to do what they wanted. The ground squelched under his boots as he walked. Stone spires of chimneys, no longer attached to anything, rose up like totem poles. The house must've been enormous once, multi-storied with massive log walls and a soaring gabled roof, but now nothing remained but its stone skeleton. Jason passed under a crumbling doorway and found himself in a kind of courtyard. Before him was a drained reflecting pool, long and rectangular. Jason couldn't tell how deep it was, because the bottom was filled with mist. A dirt path led all the way around, and the house's uneven walls rose on either side. Wolves paced under the archways of rough red volcanic stone. At the far end of the pool sat a giant she-wolf, several feet taller than Jason. Her eyes glowed silver in the fog, and her coat was the same color as the rocks-warm chocolaty red. "I know this place," Jason said. The wolf regarded him. She didn't exactly speak, but Jason could understand her. The movements of her ears and whiskers, the flash of her eyes, the way she curled her lips-all of these were part of her language. Of course, the she-wolf said. You began your journey here as a pup. Now you must find your way back. A newquest, a newstart. "That isn't fair," Jason said. But as soon as he spoke, he knew there was no point complaining to the she-wolf. Wolves didn't feel sympathy. They never expected fairness. The wolf said: Conquer or die. This is always our way. Jason wanted to protest that he couldn't conquer if he didn't know who he was, or where he was supposed to go. But he knew this wolf. Her name was simply Lupa, the Mother Wolf, the greatest of her kind. Long ago she'd found him in this place, protected him, nurtured him, chosen him, but if Jason showed weakness, she would tear him to shreds. Rather than being her pup, he would become her dinner. In the wolf pack, weakness was not an option. "Can you guide me?" Jason asked. Lupa made a rumbling noise deep in her throat, and the mist in the pool dissolved. At first Jason wasn't sure what he was seeing. At opposite ends of the pool, two dark spires had erupted from the cement floor like the drill bits of some massive tunneling machines boring through the surface. Jason couldn't tell if the spires were made of rock or petrified vines, but they were formed of thick tendrils that came together in a point at the top. Each spire was about five feet tall, but they weren't identical. The one closest to Jason was darker and seemed like a solid mass, its tendrils fused together. As he watched, it pushed a little farther out of the earth and expanded a little wider. On Lupa's end of the pool, the second spire's tendrils were more open, like the bars of a cage. Inside, Jason could vaguely see a misty figure struggling, shifting within its confines. "Hera," Jason said. The she-wolf growled in agreement. The other wolves circled the pool, their fur standing up on their backs as they snarled at the spires. The enemy has chosen this place to awaken her most powerful son, the giant king, Lupa said. Our sacred place, where demigods are claimed-the place of death or life. The burned house. The house of the wolf. It is an abomination. You must stop her. "Her?" Jason was confused. "You mean, Hera?" The she-wolf gnashed her teeth impatiently. Use your senses, pup. I care nothing for Juno, but if she falls, our enemy wakes. And that will be the end for all of us. You knowthis place. You can find it again. Cleanse our house. Stop this before it is too late. The dark spire grew slowly larger, like the bulb of some horrible flower. Jason sensed that if it ever opened, it would release something he did not want to meet. "Who am I?" Jason asked the she-wolf. "At least tell me that." Wolves don't have much of a sense of humor, but Jason could tell the question amused Lupa, as if Jason were a cub just trying out his claws, practicing to be the alpha male. You are our saving grace, as always. The she-wolf curled her lip, as if she had just made a clever joke. Do not fail, son of Jupiter. JASON WOKE TO THE SOUND OF THUNDER. Then he remembered where he was. It was always thundering in CabinOne. Above his cot, the domed ceiling was decorated with a blue-and-white mosaic like a cloudy sky. The cloud tiles shifted across the ceiling, changing from white to black. Thunder rumbled through the room, and gold tiles flashed like veins of lightning. Except for the cot that the other campers had brought him, the cabin had no regular furniture-no chairs, tables, or dressers. As far as Jason could tell, it didn't even have a bathroom. The walls were carved with alcoves, each holding a bronze brazier or a golden eagle statue on a marble pedestal. In the center of the room, a twenty-foot-tall, full-color statue of Zeus in classic Greek robes stood with a shield at his side and a lightning bolt raised, ready to smite somebody. Jason studied the statue, looking for anything he had in common with the Lord of the Sky. Black hair? Nope. Grumbly expression? Well, maybe. Beard? No thanks. In his robes and sandals, Zeus looked like a really buff, really angry hippie. Yeah, Cabin One. A big honor, the other campers had told him. Sure, if you liked sleeping in a cold temple by yourself with Hippie Zeus frowning down at you all night. Jason got up and rubbed his neck. His whole body was stifffrom bad sleep and summoning lightning. That little trick last night hadn't been as easy as he had let on. It had almost made him pass out. Next to the cot, new clothes were laid out for him: jeans, sneakers, and an orange Camp Half-Blood shirt. He definitely needed a change of clothes, but looking down at his tattered purple shirt, he was reluctant to change. It felt wrong somehow, putting on the camp shirt. He still couldn't believe he belonged here, despite everything they'd told him. He thought about his dream, hoping more memories would come back to him about Lupa, or that ruined house in the redwoods. He knew he'd been there before. The wolf was real. But his head ached when he tried to remember. The marks on his forearm seemed to burn. If he could find those ruins, he could find his past. Whatever was growing inside that rock spire, Jason had to stop it. He looked at Hippie Zeus. "You're welcome to help." The statue said nothing. "Thanks, Pops," Jason muttered. He changed clothes and checked his reflection in Zeus's shield. His face looked watery and strange in the metal, like he was dissolving in a pool of gold. Definitely he didn't look as good as Piper had last night after she'd suddenly been transformed. Jason still wasn't sure how he felt about that. He'd acted like an idiot, announcing in front of everyone that she was a knockout. Not like there'd been anything wrong with her before. Sure, she looked great after Aphrodite zapped her, but she also didn't look like herself, not comfortable with the attention. Jason had felt bad for her. Maybe that was crazy, considering she'd just been claimed by a goddess and turned into the most gorgeous girl at camp. Everybody had started fawning over her, telling her how amazing she was and howobviously she should be the one who went on the quest-but that attention had nothing to do with who she was. New dress, new makeup, glowing pink aura, and boom: suddenly people liked her. Jason felt like he understood that. Last night when he'd called down lightning, the other campers' reactions had seemed familiar to him. He was pretty sure he'd been dealing with that for a long time-people looking at him in awe just because he was the son of Zeus, treating him special, but it didn't have anything to do with him. Nobody cared about him, just his big scary daddy standing behind him with the doomsday bolt, as if to say, Respect this kid or eat voltage! After the campfire, when people started heading back to After the campfire, when people started heading back to their cabins, Jason had gone up to Piper and formally asked her to come with him on the quest. She'd still been in a state of shock, but she nodded, rubbing her arms, which must've been cold in that sleeveless dress. "Aphrodite took my snowboarding jacket," she muttered. "Mugged by my own mom." In the first row of the amphitheater, Jason found a blanket and wrapped it around her shoulders. "We'll get you a newjacket," he promised. She managed a smile. He wanted to wrap his arms around her, but he restrained himself. He didn't want her to think he was as shallow as everyone else-trying to make a move on her because she'd turned all beautiful. He was glad Piper was going with him on the quest. Jason had tried to act brave at the campfire, but it was just that-an act. The idea of going up against an evil force powerful enough to kidnap Hera scared him witless, especially since he didn't even know his own past. He'd need help, and it felt right: Piper should be with him. But things were already complicated without figuring out how much he liked her, and why. He'd already messed with her head enough. He slipped on his new shoes, ready to get out of that cold, empty cabin. Then he spotted something he hadn't noticed the night before. A brazier had been moved out of one of the alcoves to create a sleeping niche, with a bedroll, a backpack, even some pictures taped to the wall. Jason walked over. Whoever had slept there, it had been a long time ago. The bedroll smelled musty. The backpack was covered with a thin film of dust. Some of the photos once taped to the wall had lost their stickiness and fallen to the floor. One picture showed Annabeth-much younger, maybe eight, but Jason could tell it was she: same blond hair and gray eyes, same distracted look like she was thinking a million things at once. She stood next to a sandy-haired guy about fourteen or fifteen, with a mischievous smile and ragged leather armor over a T-shirt. He was pointing to an alley behind them, like he was telling the photographer, Let's go meet things in a dark alley and kill them! A second photo showed Annabeth and the same guy sitting at a campfire, laughing hysterically. Finally Jason picked up one of the photos that had fallen. It was a strip of pictures like you'd take in a do-it-yourself photo booth: Annabeth and the sandy-haired guy, but with another girl between them. She was maybe fifteen, with black hair -choppy like Piper's-a black leather jacket, and silver jewelry, so she looked kind of goth; but she was caught midlaugh, and it was clear she was with her two best friends. "That's Thalia," someone said. Jason turned. Annabeth was peering over his shoulder. Her expression was sad, like the picture bought back hard memories. "She's the other child of Zeus who lived here-but not for long. Sorry, I should've knocked." "It's fine," Jason said. "Not like I think of this place as home." Annabeth was dressed for travel, with a winter coat over her camp clothes, her knife at her belt, and a backpack across her shoulder. Jason said, "Don't suppose you've changed your mind about coming with us?" She shook her head. "You got a good team already. I'm off to look for Percy." Jason was a little disappointed. He would've appreciated having somebody on the trip who knew what they were doing, so he wouldn't feel like he was leading Piper and Leo off a cliff. "Hey, you'll do fine," Annabeth promised. "Something tells me this isn't your first quest." Jason had a vague suspicion she was right, but that didn't make him feel any better. Everyone seemed to think he was so brave and confident, but they didn't see how lost he really felt. How could they trust him when he didn't even know who he was? He looked at the pictures of Annabeth smiling. He wondered how long it had been since she'd smiled. She must really like this Percy guy to search for him so hard, and that made Jason a little envious. Was anyone searching for himright now? What if somebody cared for him that much and was going out of her mind with worry, and he couldn't even remember his old life? "You know who I am," he guessed. "Don't you?" Annabeth gripped the hilt of her dagger. She looked for a chair to sit on, but of course there weren't any. "Honestly, Jason _ I'm not sure. My best guess, you're a loner. It happens sometimes. For one reason or another, the camp never found you, but you survived anyway by constantly moving around. Trained yourself to fight. Handled the monsters on your own. You beat the odds." "The first thing Chiron said to me," Jason remembered, "was you should be dead." "That could be why," Annabeth said. "Most demigods would never make it on their own. And a child of Zeus-I mean, it doesn't get any more dangerous than that. The chances of your reaching age fifteen without finding Camp Half-Blood or dying-microscopic. But like I said, it does happen. Thalia ran away when she was young. She survived on her own for years. Even took care of me for a while. So maybe you were a loner too." Jason held out his arm. "And these marks?" Annabeth glanced at the tattoos. Clearly, they bothered her. "Well, the eagle is the symbol of Zeus, so that makes sense. The twelve lines-maybe they stand for years, if you'd been making them since you were three years old. SPQR-that's the motto of the old Roman Empire: Senatus Populusque Romanus, the Senate and the People of Rome. Though why you would burn that on your own arm, I don't know. Unless you had a really harsh Latin teacher _" Jason was pretty sure that wasn't the reason. It also didn't seem possible he'd been on his own his whole life. But what else made sense? Annabeth had been pretty clear-Camp Half-Blood was the only safe place in the world for demigods. "I, um _ had a weird dream last night," he said. It seemed like a stupid thing to confide, but Annabeth didn't look surprised. "Happens all the time to demigods," she said. "What did you see?" He told her about the wolves and the ruined house and the two rock spires. As he talked, Annabeth started pacing, looking more and more agitated. "You don't remember where this house is?" she asked. Jason shook his head. "But I'm sure I've been there before." "Redwoods," she mused. "Could be northern California. And the she-wolf _ I've studied goddesses, spirits, and monsters my whole life. I've never heard of Lupa." "She said the enemy was a 'her.' I thought maybe it was Hera, but-" "Iwouldn't trust Hera, but I don't think she's the enemy. And that thing rising out of the earth-" Annabeth's expression darkened. "You've got to stop it." "You know what it is, don't you?" he asked. "Or at least, you've got a guess. I saw your face last night at the campfire. You looked at Chiron like it was suddenly dawning on you, but you didn't want to scare us." Annabeth hesitated. "Jason, the thing about prophecies _the more you know, the more you try to change them, and that can be disastrous. Chiron believes it's better that you find your own path, find out things in your own time. If he'd told me everything he knew before my first quest with Percy_ I've got to admit, I'm not sure Iwould've been able to go through with it. For your quest, it's even more important." "That bad, huh?" "Not if you succeed.At least _ I hope not." "But I don't even know where to start. Where am I supposed to go?" "Follow the monsters," Annabeth suggested. Jason thought about that. The storm spirit who'd attacked him at the Grand Canyon had said he was being recalled to his boss. If Jason could track the storm spirits, he might be able to find the person controlling them. And maybe that would lead him to Hera's prison. "Okay," he said. "How do I find storm winds?" "Personally, I'd ask a wind god," Annabeth said. "Aeolus is the master of all the winds, but he's a little _ unpredictable. No one finds him unless he wants to be found. I'd try one of the four seasonal wind gods that work for Aeolus. The nearest one, the one who has the most dealings with heroes, is Boreas, the North Wind." "So if I looked him up onGoogle maps-" "Oh, he's not hard to find," Annabeth promised. "He settled in North America like all the other gods. So of course he picked the oldest northern settlement, about as far north as you can go." "Maine?" Jason guessed. "Farther." Jason tried to envision a map. What was farther north than Maine? The oldest northern settlement _ "Canada," he decided. "Quebec." Annabeth smiled. "I hope you speak French." Jason actually felt a spark of excitement. Quebec-at least now he had a goal. Find the North Wind, track down the storm spirits, find out who they worked for and where that ruined house was. Free Hera.All in four days. Cake. "Thanks, Annabeth." He looked at the photo booth pictures still in his hand. "So, um _ you said it was dangerous being a child of Zeus. What ever happened to Thalia?" "Oh, she's fine," Annabeth said. "She became a Hunter of Artemis-one of the handmaidens of the goddess. They roamaround the country killing monsters. We don't see them at camp very often." Jason glanced over at the huge statue of Zeus. He understood why Thalia had slept in this alcove. It was the only place in the cabin not in Hippie Zeus's line of sight. And even that hadn't been enough. She'd chosen to follow Artemis and be part of a group rather than stay in this cold drafty temple alone with her twenty-foot-tall dad-Jason's dad-glowering down at her. Eat voltage! Jason didn't have any trouble understanding Thalia's feelings. He wondered if there was a Hunters group for guys. "Who's the other kid in the photo?" he asked. "The sandyhaired guy." Annabeth's expression tightened. Touchy subject. "That's Luke," she said. "He's dead now." Jason decided it was best not to ask more, but the way Annabeth said Luke's name, he wondered if maybe Percy Jackson wasn't the only boyAnnabeth had ever liked. He focused again on Thalia's face. He kept thinking this photo of her was important. He was missing something. Jason felt a strange sense of connection to this other child of Zeus-someone who might understand his confusion, maybe even answer some questions. But another voice inside him, an insistent whisper, said: Dangerous. Stay away. "How old is she now?" he asked. "Hard to say. She was a tree for a while. Now she's immortal." "What?" His expression must've been pretty good, because Annabeth laughed. "Don't worry. It's not something all children of Zeus go through. It's a long story, but _ well, she was out of commission for a long time. If she'd aged regularly, she'd be in her twenties now, but she still looks the same as in that picture, like she's about _ well, about your age. Fifteen or sixteen?" Something the she-wolf had said in his dream nagged at Jason. He found himself asking, "What's her last name?" Annabeth looked uneasy. "She didn't use a last name, really. If she had to, she'd use her mom's, but they didn't get along. Thalia ran away when she was pretty young." Jason waited. "Grace," Annabeth said. "Thalia Grace." Jason's fingers went numb. The picture fluttered to the floor. "You okay?" Annabeth asked. A shred of memory had ignited-maybe a tiny piece that Hera had forgotten to steal. Or maybe she'd left it there on purpose-just enough for him to remember that name, and know that digging up his past was terribly, terribly dangerous. You should be dead, Chiron had said. It wasn't a comment about Jason beating the odds as a loner. Chiron knew something specific-something about Jason's family. The she-wolf 's words in his dream finally made sense to him, her clever joke at his expense. He could imagine Lupa growling a wolfish laugh. "What is it?" Annabeth pressed. Jason couldn't keep this to himself. It would kill him, and he had to get Annabeth's help. If she knew Thalia, maybe she could advise him. "You have to swear not to tell anyone else," he said. "Jason-" "Swear it," he urged. "Until I figure out what's going on, what this all means-" He rubbed the burned tattoos on his forearm. "You have to keep a secret." Annabeth hesitated, but her curiosity won out. "All right. Until you tell me it's okay, I won't share what you say with anyone else. I swear on the River Styx." Thunder rumbled, even louder than usual for the cabin. You are our saving Grace, the wolf had snarled. Jason picked up the photo from the floor. "My last name is Grace," he said. "This is my sister." Annabeth turned pale. Jason could see her wrestling with dismay, disbelief, anger. She thought he was lying. His claim was impossible. And part of him felt the same way, but as soon as he spoke the words, he knew they were true. Then the doors of the cabin burst open. Half a dozen campers spilled in, led by the bald guy from Iris, Butch. "Hurry!" he said, and Jason couldn't tell if his expression was excitement or fear. "The dragon is back." PIPER WOKE UP AND IMMEDIATELY GRABBED a mirror. There were plenty of those in the Aphrodite cabin. She sat on her bunk, looked at her reflection and groaned. She was still gorgeous. Last night after the campfire, she'd tried everything. She messed up her hair, washed the makeup off her face, cried to make her eyes red. Nothing worked. Her hair popped back to perfection. The magic makeup reapplied itself. Her eyes refused to get puffy or bloodshot. She would've changed clothes, but she had nothing to change into. The other Aphrodite campers offered her some (laughing behind her back, she was sure), but each outfit was even more fashionable and ridiculous than what she had on. Now, after a horrible night's sleep, still no change. Piper normally looked like a zombie in the morning, but her hair was styled like a supermodel's and her skin was perfect. Even that horrible zit at the base of her nose, which she'd had for so many days she'd started to call it Bob, had disappeared. many days shed started to call it Bob, had disappeared. She growled in frustration and raked her fingers through her hair. No use. The do just popped back into place. She looked like Cherokee Barbie. From across the cabin, Drew called, "Oh, honey, it won't go away." Her voice dripped with false sympathy. "Mom's blessing will last at least another day. Maybe a week if you're lucky." Piper gritted her teeth. "A week?" The other Aphrodite kids-about dozen girls and five guys -smirked and snickered at her discomfort. Piper knew she should play cool, not let them get under her skin. She'd dealt with shallow, popular kids plenty of times. But this was different. These were her brothers and sisters, even if she had nothing in common with them, and how Aphrodite had managed to have so many kids so close in age _ Never mind. She didn't want to know. "Don't worry, hon." Drew blotted her fluorescent lipstick. "You're thinking you don't belong here? We couldn't agree more. Isn't that right, Mitchell ?" One of the guys flinched. "Um, yeah. Sure." "Mmm-hmm." Drew took out her mascara and checked her lashes. Everyone else watched, not daring to speak. "So anyways, people, fifteen minutes until breakfast. The cabin's not going to clean itself! And Mitchell, I think you've learned your lesson. Right, sweetie? So you're on garbage patrol just for today, mm-kay? Show Piper how it's done, 'cause I have a feeling she'll have that job soon-i f she survives her quest. Now, get to work, everybody! It's my bathroom time!" Everybody started rushing around, making beds and folding clothes, while Drew scooped up her makeup kit, hair dryer, and brush and marched into the bathroom. Someone inside yelped, and a girl about eleven was kicked out, hastily wrapped in towels with shampoo still in her hair. The door slammed shut, and the girl started to cry. A couple of older campers comforted her and wiped the bubbles out of her hair. "Seriously?" Piper said to no one in particular. "You let Drew treat you like this?" A few kids shot Piper nervous looks, like they might actually agree, but they said nothing. The campers kept working, though Piper couldn't see why the cabin needed much cleaning. It was a life-size dollhouse, with pink walls and white window trim. The lace curtains were pastel blue and green, which of course matched the sheets and feather comforters on all the beds. The guys had one row of bunks separated by a curtain, but their section of the cabin was just as neat and orderly as the girls'. Something was definitely unnatural about that. Every camper had a wooden camp chest at the foot of their bunk with their name painted on it, and Piper guessed that the clothes in each chest were neatly folded and color coordinated. The only bit of individualism was how the campers decorated their private bunk spaces. Each had slightly different pictures tacked up of whatever celebrities they thought were hot. A fewhad personal photos, too, but most were actors or singers or whatever. Piper hoped she might not see The Poster. It had been almost a year since the movie, and she thought by now surely everyone had torn down those old tattered advertisements and tacked up something newer. But no such luck. She spotted one on the wall by the storage closet, in the middle of a collage of famous heartthrobs. The title was lurid red: king of sparta. Under that, the poster showed the leading man-a three-quarters shot of bare-chested bronze flesh, with ripped pectorals and six-pack abs. He was clad in only a Greek war kilt and a purple cape, sword in hand. He looked like he'd just been rubbed in oil, his short black hair gleaming and rivulets of sweat pouring off his rugged face, those dark sad eyes facing the camera as if to say, I will kill your men and steal your women! Ha-ha! It was the most ridiculous poster of all time. Piper and her dad had had a good laugh over it the first time they saw it. Then the movie made a bajillion dollars. The poster graphic popped up everywhere. Piper couldn't get away from it at school, walking down the street, even online. It became The Poster, the most embarrassing thing in her life. And yeah, it was a picture of her dad. She turned away so no one would think she was staring at it. Maybe when everyone went to breakfast she could tear it down and they wouldn't notice. She tried to look busy, but she didn't have any extra clothes to fold. She straightened her bed, then realized the top blanket was the one Jason had wrapped around her shoulders last night. She picked it up and pressed it to her face. It smelled of wood smoke, but unfortunately not of Jason. He was the only person who'd been genuinely nice to her after the claiming, like he cared about how she felt, not just about her stupid new clothes. God, she'd wanted to kiss him, but he'd seemed so uncomfortable, almost scared of her. She couldn't really blame him. She'd been glowing pink. "'Scuse me," said a voice by her feet. The garbage patrol guy, Mitchell, was crawling around on all fours, picking up chocolate wrappers and crumpled notes from under the bunk beds. Apparently the Aphrodite kids weren't one hundred percent neat freaks after all. She moved out of his way. "What'd you do to make Drewmad?" He glanced over at the bathroom door to make sure it was still closed. "Last night, after you were claimed, I said you might not be so bad." It wasn't much of a compliment, but Piper was stunned. An Aphrodite kid had actually stood up for her? "Thanks," she said. Mitchell shrugged. "Yeah, well. See where it got me. But for what it's worth, welcome to Cabin Ten." A girl with blond pigtails and braces raced up with a pile of clothes in her arms. She looked around furtively like she was delivering nuclear materials. "I brought you these," she whispered. "Piper, meet Lacy," Mitchell said, still crawling around on the floor. "Hi," Lacy said breathlessly. "You can change clothes. The blessing won't stop you. This is just, you know, a backpack, some rations, ambrosia and nectar for emergencies, some jeans, a few extra shirts, and a warm jacket. The boots might be a little snug. But-well-we took up a collection. Good luck on your quest!" Lacy dumped the things on the bed and started to hurry away, but Piper caught her arm. "Hold on. At least let me thank you! Why are you rushing off?" Lacy looked like she might shake apart from nervousness. "Oh, well-" "Drew might find out," Mitchell explained. "Imight have to wear the shoes of shame!" Lacy gulped. "The what?" Piper asked. Lacy and Mitchell both pointed to a black shelf mounted in the corner of the room, like an altar. Displayed on it were a hideous pair of orthopedic nurse's shoes, bright white with thick soles. "I had to wear them for a week once," Lacy whimpered. "They don't go with anything!" "And there're worse punishments," Mitchell warned. "Drewcan charmspeak, see? Not many Aphrodite kids have that power; but if she tries hard enough, she can get you to do some pretty embarrassing things. Piper, you're the first person I've seen in a long time who is able to resist her." "Charmspeak _" Piper remembered last night, the way the crowd at the campfire had swayed back and forth between Drew's opinion and hers. "You mean, like, you could talk someone into doing things. Or _ giving you things. Like a car? " "Oh, don't give Drew any ideas!" Lacy gasped. "But yeah," Mitchell said. "She could do that." "So that's why she's head counselor," Piper said. "She convinced you all?" Mitchell picked a nasty wad of gum from under Piper's bed. "Nah, she inherited the post when Silena Beauregard died in the war. Drew was second oldest. Oldest camper automatically gets the post, unless somebody with more years or more completed quests wants to challenge, in which case there's a duel, but that hardly ever happens. Anyway, we've been stuck with Drew in charge since August. She decided to make some, ah, changes in the way the cabin is run." "Yes, I did!" Suddenly Drew was there, leaning against the bunk. Lacy squeaked like a guinea pig and tried to run, but Drew put an arm out to stop her. She looked down at Mitchell. "I think you missed some trash, sweetie. You'd better make another pass." Piper glanced toward the bathroom and saw that Drewhad dumped everything from the bathroom waste bin-some pretty nasty things-all over the floor. Mitchell sat up on his haunches. He glared at Drew like he was about to attack (which Piper would've paid money to see), but finally he snapped, "Fine." Drew smiled. "See, Piper, hon, we're a good cabin here.A good family! Silena Beauregard, though _ you could take a warning from her. She was secretly passing information to Kronos in the Titan War, helping the enemy." Drew smiled all sweet and innocent, with her glittery pink makeup and her blow-dried hair lush and smelling like nutmeg. She looked like any popular teenage girl from any high school. But her eyes were as cold as steel. Piper got the feeling Drewwas looking straight into her soul, pulling out her secrets. Helping the enemy. "Oh, none of the other cabins talk about it," Drew confided. "They act like Silena Beauregard was a hero." "She sacrificed her life to make things right," Mitchell grumbled. "She was a hero." "Mmm-hmm," Drew said. "Another day on garbage patrol, Mitchell. But anyways, Silena lost track of what this cabin is about. We match up cute couples at camp! Then we break them apart and start over! It's the best fun ever. We don't have any business getting involved in other stuff like wars and quests. I certainly haven't been on any quests. They're a waste of time!" Lacy raised her hand nervously. "But last night you said you wanted to go on a-" Drew glared at her, and Lacy's voice died. "Most of all," Drew continued, "we certainly don't need our image tarnished by spies, do we, Piper?" Piper tried to answer, but she couldn't. There was no way Drew could know about her dreams or her dad's kidnapping, was there? "It's too bad you won't be around," Drew sighed. "But if you survive your little quest, don't worry, I'll find somebodyto match up with you. Maybe one of those gross Hephaestus guys. Or Clovis? He's pretty repulsive." Drew looked her over with a mix of pity and disgust. "Honestly, I didn't think it was possible for Aphrodite to have an ugly child, but _ who was your father? Was he some sort of mutant, or-" "Tristan McLean," Piper snapped. As soon as she said it, she hated herself. She never, ever played the "famous dad" card. But Drew had driven her over the edge. "My dad's Tristan McLean." The stunned silence was gratifying for a few seconds, but Piper felt ashamed of herself. Everybody turned and looked at The Poster, her dad flexing his muscles for the whole world to see. "Oh my god!" half the girls screamed at once. "Sweet!" a guy said. "The dude with the sword who killed that other dude in that movie?" "He is s o hot for an old guy," a girl said, and then she blushed. "I mean I'm sorry. I know he's your dad. That's so weird!" "It's weird, all right," Piper agreed. "Do you think you could get me his autograph?" another girl asked. Piper forced a smile. She couldn't say, If my dad survives.... "Yeah, no problem," she managed. The girl squealed in excitement, and more kids surged forward, asking a dozen questions at once. "Have you ever been on the set?" "Do you live in a mansion?" "Do you have lunch with movie stars?" "Have you had your rite of passage?" That one caught Piper off guard. "Rite of what?" she asked. The girls and guys giggled and shoved each other around like this was an embarrassing topic. "The rite of passage for an Aphrodite child," one explained. "You get someone to fall in love with you. Then you break their heart. Dump them. Once you do that, you've proven yourself worthy ofAphrodite." Piper stared at the crowd to see if they were joking. "Break someone's heart on purpose? That's terrible!" The others looked confused. "Why?" a guy asked. "Oh my god!" a girl said. "I bet Aphrodite broke your dad's heart! I bet he never loved anyone again, did he? That's so romantic! When you have your rite of passage, you can be just like Mom!" "Forget it!" Piper yelled, a little louder than she'd intended. The other kids backed away. "I'm not breaking somebody's heart just for a stupid rite of passage!" Which of course gave Drew a chance to take back control. "Well, there you go!" she cut in. "Silena said the same thing. She broke the tradition, fell in love with that Beckendorf boy, and stayed in love. If you ask me, that's why things ended tragically for her." "That's not true!" Lacy squeaked, but Drew glared at her, and she immediately melted back into the crowd. "Hardly matters," Drew continued, "because, Piper, hon, you couldn't break anyone's heart anyway. And this nonsense about your dad being Tristan McLean-that's so begging for attention." Several of the kids blinked uncertainly. "You mean he's not her dad?" one asked. Drew rolled her eyes. "Please. Now, it's time for breakfast, Drew rolled her eyes. Please. Now, its time for breakfast, people, and Piper here has to start that little quest. So let's get her packed and get her out of here!" Drew broke up the crowd and got everyone moving. She called them "hon" and "dear," but her tone made it clear she expected to be obeyed. Mitchell and Lacy helped Piper pack. They even guarded the bathroom while Piper went in and changed into a better traveling outfit. The hand-me-downs weren't fancy-thank god-just well-worn jeans, a T-shirt, a comfortable winter coat, and hiking boots that fit perfectly. She strapped her dagger, Katoptris, to her belt. When Piper came out, she felt almost normal again. The other campers were standing at their bunks while Drew came around and inspected. Piper turned to Mitchell and Lacy and mouthed, Thank you. Mitchell nodded grimly. Lacy flashed a full-braces smile. Piper doubted Drew had ever thanked themfor anything. She also noticed that the King of Sparta poster had been wadded up and thrown in the trash. Drew's orders, no doubt. Even though Piper had wanted to take the poster down herself, now she was totally steamed. When Drew spotted her, she clapped in mock applause. "Very nice! Our little quest girl all dressed in Dumpster clothes again. Now, off you go! No need to eat breakfast with us. Good luck with _ whatever. Bye!" Piper shouldered her bag. She could feel everyone else's eyes on her as she walked to the door. She could just leave and forget about it. That would've been the easy thing. What did she care about this cabin, these shallow kids? Except that some of them had tried to help her. Some of them had even stood up to Drew for her. She turned at the door. "You know, you all don't have to follow Drew's orders." The other kids shifted. Several glanced at Drew, but she looked too stunned to respond. "Umm," one managed, "she's our head counselor." "She's a tyrant," Piper corrected. "You can think for yourselves. There's got to be more to Aphrodite than this." "More than this," one kid echoed. "Think for ourselves," a second muttered. "People!" Drew screeched. "Don't be stupid! She's charm-speaking you." "No," Piper said. "I'm just telling the truth." At least, Piper thought that was the case. She didn't understand exactly how this charmspeaking business worked, but she didn't feel like she was putting any special power into her words. She didn't want to win an argument by tricking people. That would make her no better than Drew. Piper simply meant what she said. Besides, even if she tried charmspeaking, she had a feeling it wouldn't work very well on another charmspeaker like Drew. Drew sneered at her. "You may have a little power, Miss Movie Star. But you don't know the first thing about Aphrodite. You have such great ideas? What do you think this cabin is about, then? Tell them. Then maybe I'll tell them a few things about you, huh?" Piper wanted to make a withering retort, but her anger turned to panic. She was a spy for the enemy, just like Silena Beauregard.AnAphrodite traitor. Did Drew know about that, or was she bluffing? Under Drew's glare, her confidence began to crumble. "Not this," Piper managed. "Aphrodite is not about this." Then she turned and stormed out before the others could see her blushing. Behind her, Drew started laughing. "Not this? Hear that, people? She doesn't have a clue!" Piper promised herself she would never ever go back to that cabin. She blinked away her tears and stormed across the green, not sure where she was going-until she saw the dragon swooping down from the sky. "LEO?" SHEYELLED. Sure enough, there he was, sitting atop a giant bronze death machine and grinning like a lunatic. Even before he landed, the camp alarm went up. A conch horn blew. All the satyrs started screaming, "Don't kill me!" Half the camp ran outside in a mixture of pajamas and armor. The dragon set down right in the middle of the green, and Leo yelled, "It's cool! Don't shoot!" Hesitantly, the archers lowered their bows. The warriors backed away, keeping their spears and swords ready. They made a loose wide ring around the metal monster. Other demigods hid behind their cabin doors or peeped out the windows. Nobody seemed anxious to get close. Piper couldn't blame them. The dragon was huge. It glistened in the morning sun like a living penny sculpture -different shades of copper and bronze-a sixty-foot-long serpent with steel talons and drill-bit teeth and glowing ruby eyes. It had bat-shaped wings twice its length that unfurled like metallic sails, making a sound like coins cascading out of a slot machine every time they flapped. "It's beautiful," Piper muttered. The other demigods stared at her like she was insane. The dragon reared its head and shot a column of fire into the sky. Campers scrambled away and hefted their weapons, but Leo slid calmly off the dragon's back. He held up his hands like he was surrendering, except he still had that crazy grin on his face. "People of Earth, I come in peace!" he shouted. He looked like he'd been rolling around in the campfire. His army coat and his face were smeared with soot. His hands were greasestained, and he wore a new tool belt around his waist. His eyes were bloodshot. His curly hair was so oily it stuck up in porcupine quills, and he smelled strangely of Tabasco sauce. But he looked absolutely delighted. "Festus is just saying hello!" "That thing is dangerous!" an Ares girl shouted, brandishing her spear. "Kill it now!" "Stand down!" someone ordered. To Piper's surprise, it was Jason. He pushed through the crowd, flanked by Annabeth and that girl from the Hephaestus cabin, Nyssa. Jason gazed up at the dragon and shook his head in amazement. "Leo, what have you done?" "Found a ride!" Leo beamed. "You said I could go on the quest if I got you a ride. Well, I got you a class-A metallic flying bad boy! Festus can take us anywhere!" "It-has wings," Nyssa stammered. Her jaw looked like it might drop off her face. "Yeah!" Leo said. "I found them and reattached them." "But it never had wings. Where did you find them?" Leo hesitated, and Piper could tell he was hiding something. "In _ the woods," he said. "Repaired his circuits, too, mostly, so no more problems with him going haywire." "Mostly?" Nyssa asked. The dragon's head twitched. It tilted to one side and a stream of black liquid-maybe oil, hopefully just oil-poured out of its ear, all over Leo. "Just a few kinks to work out," Leo said. "But how did you survive _ ?" Nyssa was still staring at the creature in awe. "Imean, the fire breath _" "I'm quick," Leo said. "And lucky. Now, am I on this quest, or what?" Jason scratched his head. "You named him Festus? You know that in Latin, 'festus' means 'happy'? You want us to ride off to save the world on Happy the Dragon?" The dragon twitched and shuddered and flapped his wings. "That's a yes, bro!" Leo said. "Now, um, I'd really suggest we get going, guys. I already picked up some supplies in the -um, in the woods. And all these people with weapons are making Festus nervous." Jason frowned. "But we haven't planned anything yet. We can't just-" "Go," Annabeth said. She was the only one who didn't look nervous at all. Her expression was sad and wistful, like this reminded her of better times. "Jason, you've only got three days until the solstice now, and you should never keep a nervous dragon waiting. This is certainly a good omen. Go!" Jason nodded. Then he smiled at Piper. "You ready, partner?" Piper looked at the bronze dragon wings shining against the sky, and those talons that could've shredded her to pieces. "You bet," she said. Flying on the dragon was the most amazing experience ever, Piper thought. Up high, the air was freezing cold; but the dragon's metal hide generated so much heat, it was like they were flying in a protective bubble. Talk about seat warmers! And the grooves in the dragon's back were designed like high-tech saddles, so they weren't uncomfortable at all. Leo showed them how to hook their feet in the chinks of the armor, like in stirrups, and use the leather safety harnesses cleverly concealed under the exterior plating. They sat single file: Leo in front, then Piper, then Jason, and Piper was very aware of Jason right behind her. She wished he would hold on to her, maybe wrap his arms around her waist; but sadly, he didn't. Leo used the reins to steer the dragon into the sky like he'd been doing it all his life. The metal wings worked perfectly, and soon the coast of Long Island was just a hazy line behind them. They shot over Connecticut and climbed into the gray winter clouds. Leo grinned back at them. "Cool, right?" "What if we get spotted?" Piper asked. "The Mist," Jason said. "It keeps mortals from seeing magic things. If they spot us, they'll probably mistake us for a small plane or something." Piper glanced over her shoulder. "You sure about that?" "No," he admitted. Then Piper saw he was clutching a photo in his hand-a picture of a girl with dark hair. She gave Jason a quizzical look, but he blushed and put the photo in his pocket. "We're making good time. Probably get there by tonight." Piper wondered who the girl in the picture was, but she didn't want to ask; and if Jason didn't volunteer the information, that wasn't a good sign. Had he remembered something about his life before? Was that a photo of his real girlfriend? Stop it, she thought. You'll just torture yourself. She asked a safer question. "Where are we heading?" "To find the god of the North Wind," Jason said. "And chase some storm spirits." LEOWASTOTALLYBUZZING. The expression on everyone's faces when he flew the dragon into camp? Priceless! He thought his cabinmates were going to bust a lug nut. Festus had been awesome too. He hadn't blowtorched a single cabin or eaten any satyrs, even if he did dribble a little oil from his ear. Okay, a lot of oil. Leo could work on that later. So maybe Leo didn't seize the chance to tell everybody about Bunker 9 or the flying boat design. He needed some time to think about all that. He could tell them when he came back. If I come back, part of him thought. Nah, he'd come back. He'd scored a sweet magic tool belt from the bunker, plus a lot of cool supplies now safely stowed in his backpack. Besides, he had a fire-breathing, only slightly leaky dragon on his side. What could go wrong? Well, the control disk could bust, the bad part of him suggested. Festus could eat you. Okay, so the dragon wasn't quite as fixed as Leo might've let on. He'd worked all night attaching those wings, but he hadn't found an extra dragon brain anywhere in the bunker. Hey, they were under a time limit! Three days until the solstice. They had to get going. Besides, Leo had cleaned the disk pretty well. Most of the circuits were still good. It would just have to hold together. His bad side started to think, Yeah, but what if- "Shut up, me," Leo said aloud. "What?" Piper asked. "Nothing," he said. "Long night. I think I'm hallucinating. It's cool." Sitting in front, Leo couldn't see their faces, but he assumed from their silence that his friends were not pleased to have a sleepless, hallucinating dragon driver. "Just joking." Leo decided it might be good to change the subject. "So what's the plan, bro? You said something about catching wind, or breaking wind, or something?" As they flew over New England, Jason laid out the game plan: First, find some guy named Boreas and grill him for information- "His name is Boreas?" Leo had to ask. "What is he, the God of Boring?" Second, Jason continued, they had to find those venti that had attacked them at the Grand Canyon- "Can we just call them storm spirits?" Leo asked. "Venti makes them sound like evil espresso drinks." And third, Jason finished, they had to find out who the storm spirits worked for, so they could find Hera and free her. "So you want to look for Dylan, the nasty storm dude, on purpose," Leo said. "The guy who threw me off the skywalk and sucked Coach Hedge into the clouds." "That's about it," Jason said. "Well _ there may be a wolf involved, too. But I think she's friendly. She probably won't eat us, unless we show weakness." Jason told them about his dream-the big nasty mother wolf and a burned-out house with stone spires growing out of the swimming pool. "Uh-huh," Leo said. "But you don't know where this place is." "Nope," Jason admitted. "There's also giants," Piper added. "The prophecy said the giants'revenge." "Hold on," Leo said. "Giants-like more than one? Why can't it be just one giant who wants revenge?" "I don't think so," Piper said. "I remember in some of the old Greek stories, there was something about an army of giants." "Great," Leo muttered. "Of course, with our luck, it's an army. So you know anything else about these giants? Didn't you do a bunch of myth research for that movie with your dad?" "Your dad's an actor?" Jason asked. Leo laughed. "I keep forgetting about your amnesia. Heh. Forgetting about amnesia. That's funny. But yeah, her dad's Tristan McLean." "Uh-Sorry, what was he in?" "It doesn't matter," Piper said quickly. "The giants-well, there were lots of giants in Greek mythology. But if I'm thinking of the right ones, they were bad news. Huge, almost impossible to kill. They could throw mountains and stuff. I think they were related to the Titans. They rose from the earth after Kronos lost the war-I mean the first Titan war, thousands of years ago-and they tried to destroy Olympus. If we're talking about the same giants-" "Chiron said it was happening again," Jason remembered. "The last chapter. That's what he meant. No wonder he didn't want us to know all the details." Leo whistled. "So _ giants who can throw mountains. Friendly wolves that will eat us if we show weakness. Evil espresso drinks. Gotcha. Maybe this isn't the time to bring up my psycho babysitter." "Is that another joke?" Piper asked. Leo told them about Tia Callida, who was really Hera, and how she'd appeared to him at camp. He didn't tell them about his fire abilities. That was still a touchy subject, especially after Nyssa had told him fire demigods tended to destroy cities and stuff. Besides, then Leo would have to get into how he'd caused his mom's death, and _ No. He wasn't ready to go there. He did manage to tell about the night she died, not mentioning the fire, just saying the machine shop collapsed. It was easier without having to look at his friends, just keeping his eyes straight ahead as they flew. And he told them about the strange woman in earthen robes who seemed to be asleep, and seemed to know the future. Leo estimated the whole state of Massachusetts passed below them before his friends spoke. "That's _ disturbing," Piper said. "'Bout sums it up," Leo agreed. "Thing is, everybody says don't trust Hera. She hates demigods. And the prophecy said we'd cause death if we unleash her rage. So I'm wondering _why are we doing this?" "She chose us," Jason said. "All three of us. We're the first of the seven who have to gather for the Great Prophecy. This quest is the beginning of something much bigger." That didn't make Leo feel any better, but he couldn't argue with Jason's point. It d i d feel like this was the start of something huge. He just wished that if there were four more demigods destined to help them, they'd show up quick. Leo didn't want to hog all the terrifying life-threatening adventures. "Besides," Jason continued, "helping Hera is the only way I can get back my memory. And that dark spire in my dreamseemed to be feeding on Hera's energy. If that thing unleashes a king of the giants by destroying Hera-" "Not a good trade-off," Piper agreed. "At least Hera is on our side-mostly. Losing her would throw the gods into chaos. She's the main one who keeps peace in the family. And a war with the giants could be even more destructive than the Titan War." Jason nodded. "Chiron also talked about worse forces stirring on the solstice, with it being a good time for dark magic, and all-something that could awaken if Hera were sacrificed on that day. And this mistress who's controlling the storm spirits, the one who wants to kill all the demigods-" "Might be that weird sleeping lady," Leo finished. "Dirt Woman fully awake? Not something Iwant to see." "But who is she?" Jason asked. "And what does she have to do with giants?" Good questions, but none of them had answers. They flewin silence while Leo wondered if he'd done the right thing, sharing so much. He'd never told anyone about that night at the warehouse. Even if he hadn't give them the whole story, it still felt strange, like he'd opened up his chest and taken out all the gears that made him tick. His body was shaking, and not fromthe cold. He hoped Piper, sitting behind him, couldn't tell. The forge and dove shall break the cage. Wasn't that the prophecy line? That meant Piper and he would have to figure out how to break into that magic rock prison, assuming they could find it. Then they'd unleash Hera's rage, causing a lot of death. Well, that sounded fun! Leo had seen Tia Callida in death. Well, that sounded fun! Leo had seen Tia Callida in action; she liked knives, snakes, and putting babies in roaring fires. Yeah, definitely let's unleash her rage. Great idea. Festus kept flying. The wind got colder, and below themsnowy forests seemed to go on forever. Leo didn't knowexactly where Quebec was. He'd told Festus to take them to the palace of Boreas, and Festus kept going north. Hopefully, the dragon knew the way, and they wouldn't end up at the North Pole. "Why don't you get some sleep?" Piper said in his ear. "You were up all night." Leo wanted to protest, but the word sleep sounded really good. "You won't let me fall off?" Piper patted his shoulder. "Trust me, Valdez. Beautiful people never lie." "Right," he muttered. He leaned forward against the warmbronze of the dragon's neck, and closed his eyes. IT SEEMEDHESLEPTONLYFORSECONDS, but when Piper shook himawake, the daylight was fading. "We're here," she said. Leo rubbed the sleep out of his eyes. Below them, a city sat on a cliff overlooking a river. The plains around it were dusted with snow, but the city itself glowed warmly in the winter sunset. Buildings crowded together inside high walls like a medieval town, way older than any place Leo had seen before. In the center was an actual castle-at least Leo assumed it was a castle-with massive red brick walls and a square tower with a peaked, green gabled roof. "Tell me that's Quebec and not Santa's workshop," Leo said. "Yeah, Quebec City," Piper confirmed. "One of the oldest cities in North America. Founded around sixteen hundred or so?" Leo raised an eyebrow. "Your dad do a movie about that too?" She made a face at him, which Leo was used to, but it didn't quite work with her new glamorous makeup. "Iread sometimes, okay? Just because Aphrodite claimed me, doesn't mean I have to be an airhead." "Feisty!" Leo said. "So you know so much, what's that castle?" "A hotel, I think." Leo laughed. "No way." But as they got closer, Leo saw she was right. The grand entrance was bustling with doormen, valets, and porters taking bags. Sleek black luxury cars idled in the drive. People in elegant suits and winter cloaks hurried to get out of the cold. "The North Wind is staying in a hotel?" Leo said. "That can't be-" "Heads up, guys," Jason interrupted. "We got company!" Leo looked below and saw what Jason meant. Rising fromthe top of the tower were two winged figures-angry angels, with nasty-looking swords. Festus didn't like the angel guys. He swooped to a halt in midair, wings beating and talons bared, and made a rumbling sound in his throat that Leo recognized. He was getting ready to blow fire. "Steady, boy," Leo muttered. Something told him the angels would not take kindly to getting torched. "I don't like this," Jason said. "They look like storm spirits." At first Leo thought he was right, but as the angels got closer, he could see they were much more solid than venti. They looked like regular teenagers except for their icy white hair and feathery purple wings. Their bronze swords were jagged, like icicles. Their faces looked similar enough that they might've been brothers, but they definitely weren't twins. One was the size of an ox, with a bright red hockey jersey, baggy sweatpants, and black leather cleats. The guy clearly had been in too many fights, because both his eyes were black, and when he bared his teeth, several of them were missing. The other guy looked like he'd just stepped off one of Leo's mom's 1980s rock album covers-Journey, maybe, or Hall & Oates, or something even lamer. His ice-white hair was long and feathered into a mullet. He wore pointy-toed leather shoes, designer pants that were way too tight, and a god-awful silk shirt with the top three buttons open. Maybe he thought he looked like a groovy love god, but the guy couldn't have weighed more than ninety pounds, and he had a bad case of acne. The angels pulled up in front of the dragon and hovered there, swords at the ready. The hockey ox grunted. "No clearance." "'Scuse me?" Leo said. "You have no flight plan on file," explained the groovy love god. On top of his other problems, he had a French accent so bad Leo was sure it was fake. "This is restricted airspace." "Destroy them?" The ox showed off his gap-toothed grin. The dragon began to hiss steam, ready to defend them. Jason summoned his golden sword, but Leo cried, "Hold on! Let's have some manners here, boys. Can I at least find out who has the honor of destroying me?" "I am Cal!" the ox grunted. He looked very proud of himself, like he'd taken a long time to memorize that sentence. "That's short for Calais," the love god said. "Sadly, my brother cannot say words with more than two syllables-" "Pizza! Hockey! Destroy!" Cal offered. "-which includes his own name," the love god finished. "I am Cal," Cal repeated. "And this is Zethes! My brother!" "Wow," Leo said. "That was almost three sentences, man! Way to go." Cal grunted, obviously pleased with himself. "Stupid buffoon," his brother grumbled. "They make fun of you. But no matter. I am Zethes, which is short for Zethes. And the lady there-" He winked at Piper, but the wink was more like a facial seizure. "She can call me anything she likes. Perhaps she would like to have dinner with a famous demigod before we must destroy you?" Piper made a sound like gagging on a cough drop. "That's _ a truly horrifying offer." "It is no problem." Zethes wiggled his eyebrows. "We are a very romantic people, we Boreads." "Boreads?" Jason cut in. "Do you mean, like, the sons of Boreas?" "Ah, so you've heard of us!" Zethes looked pleased. "We are our father's gatekeepers. So you understand, we cannot have unauthorized people flying in his airspace on creaky dragons, scaring the silly mortal peoples." He pointed below, and Leo saw that the mortals were starting to take notice. Several were pointing up-not with alarm, yet-more with confusion and annoyance, like the dragon was a traffic helicopter flying too low. "Which is sadly why, unless this is an emergency landing," Zethes said, brushing his hair out of his acne-covered face, "we will have to destroy you painfully." "Destroy!" Cal agreed, with a little more enthusiasm than Leo thought necessary. "Wait!" Piper said. "This is an emergency landing." "Awww!" Cal looked so disappointed, Leo almost felt sorry for him. Zethes studied Piper, which of course he'd already been doing. "How does the pretty girl decide this is an emergency, then?" "We have to see Boreas. It's totally urgent! Please?" She forced a smile, which Leo figured must've been killing her; but she still had that blessing of Aphrodite thing going on, and she looked great. Something about her voice, too-Leo found himself believing every word. Jason was nodding, looking absolutely convinced. Zethes picked at his silk shirt, probably making sure it was still open wide enough. "Well _ I hate to disappoint a lovely lady, but you see, my sister, she would have an avalanche if we allowed you-" "And our dragon is malfunctioning!" Piper added. "It could crash any minute!" Festus shuddered helpfully, then turned his head and spilled gunk out of his ear, splattering a black Mercedes in the parking lot below. "No destroy?" Cal whimpered. Zethes pondered the problem. Then he gave Piper another spasmodic wink. "Well, you are pretty. I mean, you're right.A malfunctioning dragon-this could be an emergency." "Destroy them later?" Cal offered, which was probably as close to friendly as he ever got. "It will take some explaining," Zethes decided. "Father has not been kind to visitors lately. But, yes. Come, faulty dragon people. Follow us." The Boreads sheathed their swords and pulled smaller weapons from their belts-or at least Leo thought they were weapons. Then the Boreads switched them on, and Leo realized they were flashlights with orange cones, like the ones traffic controller guys use on a runway. Cal and Zethes turned and swooped toward the hotel's tower. Leo turned to his friends. "I love these guys. Follow them?" Jason and Piper didn't look eager. "I guess," Jason decided. "We're here now. But I wonder why Boreas hasn't been kind to visitors." "Pfft, he just hasn't met us." Leo whistled. "Festus, after those flashlights!" As they got closer, Leo worried they'd crash into the tower. The Boreads made right for the green gabled peak and didn't slowdown. Then a section of the slanted roof slid open, revealing an entrance easily wide enough for Festus. The top and bottom were lined with icicles like jagged teeth. "This cannot be good," Jason muttered, but Leo spurred the dragon downward, and they swooped in after the Boreads. They landed in what must have been the penthouse suite; but the place had been hit by a flash freeze. The entry hall had vaulted ceilings forty feet high, huge draped windows, and lush oriental carpets. A staircase at the back of the room led up to another equally massive hall, and more corridors branched off to the left and right. But the ice made the room's beauty a little frightening. When Leo slid off the dragon, the carpet crunched under his feet. A fine layer of frost covered the furniture. The curtains didn't budge because they were frozen solid, and the ice-coated windows let in weird watery light from the sunset. Even the ceiling was furry with icicles. As for the stairs, Leo was sure he'd slip and break his neck if he tried to climb them. "Guys," Leo said, "fix the thermostat in here, and I would totally move in." "Not me." Jason looked uneasily at the staircase. "Something feels wrong. Something up there _" Festus shuddered and snorted flames. Frost started to form on his scales. "No, no, no." Zethes marched over, though how he could walk in those pointy leather shoes, Leo had no idea. "The dragon must be deactivated. We can't have fire in here. The heat ruins my hair." Festus growled and spun his drill-bit teeth. "'S'okay, boy." Leo turned to Zethes. "The dragon's a little touchy about the whole deactivation concept. But I've got a better solution." "Destroy?" Cal suggested. "No, man. You gotta stop with the destroy talk. Just wait." "Leo," Piper said nervously, "what are you-" "Watch and learn, beauty queen. When I was repairing Festus last night, I found all kinds of buttons. Some, you do not want to know what they do. But others _ Ah, here we go." Leo hooked his fingers behind the dragon's left foreleg. He pulled a switch, and the dragon shuddered from head to toe. Everyone backed away as Festus folded like origami. His bronze plating stacked together. His neck and tail contracted into his body. His wings collapsed and his trunk compacted until he was a rectangular metal wedge the size of a suitcase. Leo tried to lift it, but the thing weighed about six billion pounds. "Um _ yeah. Hold on. I think-aha." He pushed another button. A handle flipped up on the top, and wheels clicked out on the bottom. "Ta-da!" he announced. "The world's heaviest carry-on bag!" "That's impossible," Jason said. "Something that big couldn't-" "Stop!" Zethes ordered. He and Cal both drew their swords and glared at Leo. Leo raised his hands. "Okay _ what'd I do? Stay calm, guys. If it bothers you that much, I don't have to take the dragon as carry-on-" "Who are you?" Zethes shoved the point of his sword against Leo's chest. "A child of the South Wind, spying on us?" "What? No!" Leo said. "Son of Hephaestus. Friendly blacksmith, no harm to anyone!" Cal growled. He put his face up to Leo's, and he definitely wasn't any prettier at point-blank, with his bruised eyes and bashed-in mouth. "Smell fire," he said. "Fire is bad." "Oh." Leo's heart raced. "Yeah, well _ my clothes are kind of singed, and I've been working with oil, and-" "No!" Zethes pushed Leo back at sword point. "We can smell fire, demigod. We assumed it was from the creaky dragon, but now the dragon is a suitcase. And I still smell fire _ on you." If it hadn't been like three degrees in the penthouse, Leo would've started sweating. "Hey _ look _ I don't know-" He glanced at his friends desperately. "Guys, a little help?" Jason already had his gold coin in his hand. He stepped forward, his eyes on Zethes. "Look, there's been a mistake. Leo isn't a fire guy. Tell them, Leo. Tell them you're not a fire guy." "Um _" "Zethes?" Piper tried her dazzling smile again, though she looked a little too nervous and cold to pull it off. "We're all friends here. Put down your swords and let's talk." "The girl is pretty," Zethes admitted, "and of course she cannot help being attracted to my amazingness; but sadly, I cannot romance her at this time." He poked his sword point farther into Leo's chest, and Leo could feel the frost spreading across his shirt, turning his skin numb. He wished he could reactivate Festus. He needed some backup. But it would've taken several minutes, even if he could reach the button, with two purple-winged crazy guys in his path. "Destroy him now?" Cal asked his brother. Zethes nodded. "Sadly, I think-" "No," Jason insisted. He sounded calm enough, but Leo figured he was about two seconds away from flipping that coin and going into full gladiator mode. "Leo's just a son of Hephaestus. He's no threat. Piper here is a daughter of Aphrodite. I'm the son of Zeus. We're on a peaceful _" Jason's voice faltered, because both Boreads had suddenly turned on him. "What did you say?" Zethes demanded. "You are the son of Zeus?" "Um _ yeah," Jason said. "That's a good thing, right? My name is Jason." Cal looked so surprised, he almost dropped his sword. "Can't be Jason," he said. "Doesn't look the same." Zethes stepped forward and squinted at Jason's face. "No, he is not our Jason. Our Jason was more stylish. Not as much as me-but stylish. Besides, our Jason died millennia ago." "Wait," Jason said. "Your Jason _ you mean the original Jason? The Golden Fleece guy?" "Of course," Zethes said. "We were his crewmates aboard his ship, the Argo, in the old times, when we were mortal demigods. Then we accepted immortality to serve our father, so I could look this good for all time, and my silly brother could enjoy pizza and hockey." "Hockey!" Cal agreed. "But Jason-our Jason-he died a mortal death," Zethes said. "You can't be him." "I'm not," Jason agreed. "So, destroy?" Cal asked. Clearly the conversation was giving his two brain cells a serious workout. "No," Zethes said regretfully. "If he is a son of Zeus, he could be the one we've been watching for." "Watching for?" Leo asked. "You mean like in a good way: you'll shower him with fabulous prizes? Or watching for like in a bad way: he's in trouble?" A girl's voice said, "That depends on my father's will." Leo looked up the staircase. His heart nearly stopped. At the top stood a girl in a white silk dress. Her skin was unnaturally pale, the color of snow, but her hair was a lush mane of black, and her eyes were coffee brown. She focused on Leo with no expression, no smile, no friendliness. But it didn't matter. Leo was in love. She was the most dazzling girl he'd ever seen. Then she looked at Jason and Piper, and seemed to understand the situation immediately. "Father will want to see the one called Jason," the girl said. "Then it is him?" Zethes asked excitedly. "We'll see," the girl said. "Zethes, bring our guests." Leo grabbed the handle of his bronze dragon suitcase. He wasn't sure how he'd lug it up the stairs, but he had to get next to that girl and ask her some important questions-like her email address and phone number. Before he could take a step, she froze him with a look. Not literally froze, but she might as well have. "Not you, Leo Valdez," she said. In the back of his mind, Leo wondered how she knew his name; but mostly he was just concentrating on how crushed he felt. "Why not?" He probably sounded like a whiny kindergartner, but he couldn't help it. "You cannot be in the presence of my father," the girl said. "Fire and ice-it would not be wise." "We're going together," Jason insisted, putting his hand on Leo's shoulder, "or not at all." The girl tilted her head, like she wasn't used to people refusing her orders. "He will not be harmed, Jason Grace, unless you make trouble. Calais, keep Leo Valdez here. Guard him, but do not kill him." Cal pouted. "Just a little?" "No," the girl insisted. "And take care of his interesting suitcase, until Father passes judgment." Jason and Piper looked at Leo, their expressions asking him a silent question: Howdo you want to play this? Leo felt a surge of gratitude. They were ready to fight for him. They wouldn't leave him alone with the hockey ox. Part of him wanted to go for it, bust out his new tool belt and see what he could do, maybe even summon a fireball or two and warmthis place up. But the Boread guys scared him. And that gorgeous girl scared him more, even if he still wanted her number. "It's fine, guys," he said. "No sense causing trouble if we don't have to. You go ahead." "Listen to your friend," the pale girl said. "Leo Valdez will be perfectly safe. I wish I could say the same for you, son of Zeus. Now come, King Boreas is waiting." JASONDIDN'T WANT TOLEAVELEO, but he was starting to think that hanging out with Cal the hockey jock might be the least dangerous option in this place. As they climbed the icy staircase, Zethes stayed behind them, his blade drawn. The guy might've looked like a discoera reject, but there was nothing funny about his sword. Jason figured one hit from that thing would probably turn him into a Popsicle. Then there was the ice princess. Every once in a while she'd turn and give Jason a smile, but there was no warmth in her expression. She regarded Jason like he was an especially interesting science specimen-one she couldn't wait to dissect. If these were Boreas's kids, Jason wasn't sure he wanted to meet Daddy. Annabeth had told him Boreas was the friendliest of the wind gods. Apparently that meant he didn't kill heroes quite as fast as the others did. Jason worried that he'd led his friends into a trap. If things went bad, he wasn't sure he could get them out alive. Without thinking about it, he took Piper's hand for reassurance. She raised her eyebrows, but she didn't let go. "It'll be fine," she promised. "Just a talk, right?" At the top of the stairs, the ice princess looked back and noticed them holding hands. Her smile faded. Suddenly Jason's hand in Piper's turned ice cold-burning cold. He let go, and his fingers were smoking with frost. So were Piper's. "Warmth is not a good idea here," the princess advised, "especially when I am your best chance of staying alive. Please, this way." Piper gave him a nervous frown like, What was that about? Jason didn't have an answer. Zethes poked him in the back with his icicle sword, and they followed the princess down a massive hallway decked in frosty tapestries. Freezing winds blew back and forth, and Jason's thoughts moved almost as fast. He'd had a lot of time to think while they rode the dragon north, but he felt as confused as ever. Thalia's picture was still in his pocket, though he didn't need to look at it anymore. Her image had burned itself into his mind. It was bad enough not remembering his past, but to know he had a sister out there somewhere who might have answers and to have no way of finding her-that just drove himup the wall. In the picture, Thalia looked nothing like him. They both had blue eyes, but that was it. Her hair was black. Her complexion was more Mediterranean. Her facial features were sharper-like a hawk's. Still, Thalia looked s o familiar. Hera had left him just enough memory that he could be certain Thalia was his sister. But Annabeth had acted completely surprised when he'd told her, like she'd never heard of Thalia's having a brother. Did Thalia even know about him? How had they been separated? Hera had taken those memories. She'd stolen everything from Jason's past, plopped him into a new life, and now she expected him to save her from some prison just so he could get back what she'd taken. It made Jason so angry, he wanted to walk away, let Hera rot in that cage: but he couldn't. He was hooked. He had to know more, and that made him even more resentful. "Hey." Piper touched his arm. "You still with me?" "Yeah _ yeah, sorry." He was grateful for Piper. He needed a friend, and he was glad she'd started losing the Aphrodite blessing. The makeup was fading. Her hair was slowly going back to its old choppy style with the little braids down the sides. It made her look more real, and as far as Jason was concerned, more beautiful. He was sure now that they'd never known each other before the Grand Canyon. Their relationship was just a trick of the Mist in Piper's mind. But the longer he spent with her, the more he wished it had been real. more he wished it had been real. Stop that, he told himself. It wasn't fair to Piper, thinking that way. Jason had no idea what was waiting for him back in his old life-or who might be waiting. But he was pretty sure his past wouldn't mix with Camp Half-Blood. After this quest, who knew what would happen? Assuming they even survived. At the end of the hallway they found themselves in front of a set of oaken doors carved with a map of the world. In each corner was a man's bearded face, blowing wind. Jason was pretty sure he'd seen maps like this before. But in this version, all the wind guys were Winter, blowing ice and snow from every corner of the world. The princess turned. Her brown eyes glittered, and Jason felt like he was a Christmas present she was hoping to open. "This is the throne room," she said. "Be on your best behavior, Jason Grace. My father can be _ chilly. I will translate for you, and try to encourage him to hear you out. I do hope he spares you. We could have such fun." Jason guessed this girl's definition of fun was not the same as his. "Um, okay," he managed. "But really, we're just here for a little talk. We'll be leaving right afterward." The girl smiled. "I love heroes. So blissfully ignorant." Piper rested her hand on her dagger. "Well, how about you enlighten us? You say you're going to translate for us, and we don't even know who you are. What's your name?" The girl sniffed with distaste. "I suppose I shouldn't be surprised you don't recognize me. Even in the ancient times the Greeks did not know me well. Their island homes were too warm, too far from my domain. I am Khione, daughter of Boreas, goddess of snow." She stirred the air with her finger, and a miniature blizzard swirled around her-big, fluffy flakes as soft as cotton. "Now, come," Khione said. The oaken doors blew open, and cold blue light spilled out of the room. "Hopefully you will survive your little talk." IFTHEENTRYHALLHADBEENCOLD, the throne room was like a meat locker. Mist hung in the air. Jason shivered, and his breath steamed. Along the walls, purple tapestries showed scenes of snowy forests, barren mountains, and glaciers. High above, ribbons of colored light-the aurora borealis-pulsed along the ceiling. A layer of snow covered the floor, so Jason had to step carefully. All around the room stood life-size ice sculpture warriors-some in Greek armor, some medieval, some in modern camouflage-all frozen in various attack positions, swords raised, guns locked and loaded. At least Jason thought they were sculptures. Then he tried to step between two Greek spearmen, and they moved with surprising speed, their joints cracking and spraying ice crystals as they crossed their javelins to block Jason's path. From the far end of the hall, a man's voice rang out in a language that sounded like French. The room was so long and misty, Jason couldn't see the other end; but whatever the man said, the ice guards uncrossed their javelins. "It's fine," Khione said. "My father has ordered them not to kill you just yet." "Super," Jason said. Zethes prodded him in the back with his sword. "Keep moving, Jason Junior." "Please don't call me that." "My father is not a patient man," Zethes warned, "and the beautiful Piper, sadly, is losing her magic hairdo very fast. Later, perhaps, I can lend her something from my wide assortment of hair products." "Thanks," Piper grumbled. They kept walking, and the mist parted to reveal a man on an ice throne. He was sturdily built, dressed in a stylish white suit that seemed woven from snow, with dark purple wings that spread out to either side. His long hair and shaggy beard were encrusted with icicles, so Jason couldn't tell if his hair was gray or just white with frost. His arched eyebrows made him look angry, but his eyes twinkled more warmly than his daughter's -as if he might have a sense of humor buried somewhere under that permafrost. Jason hoped so. "Bienvenu," the king said. "Je suis Boreas le Roi. Et vous?" Khione the snow goddess was about to speak, but Piper stepped forward and curtsied. "Votre Majeste," she said, " je suis Piper McLean. Et c'est Jason, fils de Zeus." The king smiled with pleasant surprise. "Vous parlez francais? Tres bien!" "Piper, you speak French?" Jason asked. Piper frowned. "No. Why?" "You just spoke French." Piper blinked. "I did?" The king said something else, and Piper nodded. "Oui, Votre Majeste." The king laughed and clapped his hands, obviously delighted. He said a few more sentences then swept his hand toward his daughter as if shooing her away. Khione looked miffed. "The king says-" "He says I'm a daughter of Aphrodite," Piper interrupted, "so naturally I can speak French, which is the language of love. I had no idea. His Majesty says Khione won't have to translate now." Behind them, Zethes snorted, and Khione shot him a murderous look. She bowed stiffly to her father and took a step back. The king sized up Jason, and Jason decided it would be a good idea to bow. "Your Majesty, I'm Jason Grace. Thank you for, um, not killing us. May I ask _ why does a Greek god speak French?" Piper had another exchange with the king. "He speaks the language of his host country," Piper translated. "He says all gods do this. Most Greek gods speak English, as they now reside in the United States, but Boreas was never welcomed in their realm. His domain was always far to the north. These days he likes Quebec, so he speaks French." The king said something else, and Piper turned pale. "The king says _" She faltered. "He says-" "Oh, allow me," Khione said. "My father says he has orders to kill you. Did I not mention that earlier?" Jason tensed. The king was still smiling amiably, like he'd just delivered great news. "Kill us?" Jason said. "Why?" "Because," the king said, in heavily accented English, "my lord Aeolus has commanded it." Boreas rose. He stepped down from his throne and furled his wings against his back. As he approached, Khione and Zethes bowed. Jason and Piper followed their example. "I shall deign to speak your language," Boreas said, "as Piper McLean has honored me in mine. Toujours, I have had a fondness for the children of Aphrodite. As for you, Jason Grace, my master Aeolus would not expect me to kill a son of Lord Zeus _ without first hearing you out." Jason's gold coin seemed to grow heavy in his pocket. If he were forced to fight, he didn't like his chances. Two seconds at least to summon his blade. Then he'd be facing a god, two of his children, and an army of freeze-dried warriors. "Aeolus is the master of the winds, right?" Jason asked. "Why would he want us dead?" "You are demigods," Boreas said, as if this explained everything. "Aeolus's job is to contain the winds, and demigods have always caused him many headaches. They ask him for favors. They unleash winds and cause chaos. But the final insult was the battle with Typhon last summer_" Boreas waved his hand, and a sheet of ice like a flatscreen TV appeared in the air. Images of a battle flickered across the surface-a giant wrapped in storm clouds, wading across a river toward the Manhattan skyline. Tiny, glowing figures-the gods, Jason guessed-swarmed around him like angry wasps, pounding the monster with lightning and fire. Finally the river erupted in a massive whirlpool, and the smoky form sank beneath the waves and disappeared. "The storm giant, Typhon," Boreas explained. "The first time the gods defeated him, eons ago, he did not die quietly. His death released a host of storm spirits-wild winds that answered to no one. It was Aeolus's job to track them all down and imprison them in his fortress. The other gods-they did not help. They did not even apologize for the inconvenience. It took Aeolus centuries to track down all the storm spirits, and naturally this irritated him. Then, last summer, Typhon was defeated again-" "And his death released another wave of venti," Jason guessed. "Which made Aeolus even angrier." "C'est vrai," Boreas agreed. "But, Your Majesty," Piper said, "the gods had no choice but to battle Typhon. He was going to destroy Olympus! Besides, why punish demigods for that?" The king shrugged. "Aeolus cannot take out his anger on the gods. They are his bosses, and very powerful. So he gets even with the demigods who helped them in the war. He issued orders to us: demigods who come to us for aid are no longer to be tolerated. We are to crush your little mortal faces." There was an uncomfortable silence. "That sounds _ extreme," Jason ventured. "But you're not going to crush our faces yet, right? You're going to listen to us first, 'cause once you hear about our quest-" "Yes, yes," the king agreed. "You see,Aeolus also said that a son of Zeus might seek my aid, and if this happened, I should listen to you before destroying you, as you might-how did he put it?-make all our lives very interesting. I am only obligated to listen, however. After that, I am free to pass judgment as I see fit. But Iwill listen first. Khione wishes this also. It may be that we will not kill you." Jason felt like he could almost breathe again. "Great. Thanks." "Do not thank me." Boreas smiled. "There are many ways you could make our lives interesting. Sometimes we keep demigods for our amusement, as you can see." He gestured around the room to the various ice statues. Piper made a strangled noise. "You mean-they're all demigods? Frozen demigods? They're alive?" "An interesting question," Boreas conceded, as if it had never occurred to him before. "They do not move unless they are obeying my orders. The rest of the time, they are merely frozen. Unless they were to melt, I suppose, which would be very messy." Khione stepped behind Jason and put her cold fingers on his neck. "My father gives me such lovely presents," she murmured in his ear. "Join our court. Perhaps I'll let your friends go." "What?" Zethes broke in. "If Khione gets this one, then I deserve the girl. Khione always gets more presents!" "Now, children," Boreas said sternly. "Our guests will think you are spoiled! Besides, you moved too fast. We have not even heard the demigod's story yet. Then we will decide what to do with them. Please, JasonGrace, entertain us." Jason felt his brain shutting down. He didn't look at Piper for fear he'd completely lose it. He'd gotten them into this, and now they were going die-or worse, they'd be amusements for Boreas's children and end up frozen forever in this throne room, slowly corroding from freezer burn. Khione purred and stroked his neck. Jason didn't plan it, but electricity sparked along his skin. There was loud pop, and Khione flew backward, skidding across the floor. Zethes laughed. "That is good! I'm glad you did that, even though I have to kill you now." For a moment, Khione was too stunned to react. Then the air around her began to swirl with a micro-blizzard. "You dare-" "Stop," Jason ordered, with as much force as he could muster. "You're not going to kill us. And you're not going to keep us. We're on a quest for the queen of the gods herself, so unless you want Hera busting down your doors, you're going to let us go." He sounded a lot more confident than he felt, but it got their attention. Khione's blizzard swirled to a stop. Zethes lowered his sword. They both looked uncertainly at their father. "Hmm," Boreas said. His eyes twinkled, but Jason couldn't tell if it was with anger or amusement. "A son of Zeus, favored by Hera? This is definitely a first. Tell us your story." Jason would've botched it right there. He hadn't been expecting to get the chance to talk, and now that he could, his voice abandoned him. Piper saved him. "Your Majesty." She curtsied again with incredible poise, considering her life was on the line. She told Boreas the whole story, from the Grand Canyon to the prophecy, much better and faster than Jason could have. "All we ask for is guidance," Piper concluded. "These storm spirits attacked us, and they're working for some evil mistress. If we find them, maybe we can find Hera." The king stroked the icicles in his beard. Out the windows, night had fallen, and the only light came from the aurora borealis overhead, washing everything in red and blue. "I know of these storm spirits," Boreas said. "I know where they are kept, and of the prisoner they took." "You mean Coach Hedge?" Jason asked. "He's alive?" Boreas waved aside the question. "For now. But the one who controls these storm winds _ It would be madness to oppose her. You would be better staying here as frozen statues." "Hera's in trouble," Jason said. "In three days she's going to be-I don't know-consumed, destroyed, something. And a giant is going to rise." "Yes," Boreas agreed. Was it Jason's imagination, or did he shoot Khione an angry look? "Many horrible things are waking. Even my children do not tell me all the news they should. The Great Stirring of monsters that began with Kronos -your father Zeus foolishly believed it would end when the Titans were defeated. But just as it was before, so it is now. The final battle is yet to come, and the one who will wake is more terrible than any Titan. Storm spirits-these are only beginning. The earth has many more horrors to yield up. When monsters no longer stay in Tartarus, and souls are no longer confined to Hades _ Olympus has good reason to fear." Jason wasn't sure what all this meant, but he didn't like the way Khione was smiling-like this was her definition of fun. "So you'll help us?" Jason asked the king. Boreas scowled. "I did not say that." "Please, Your Majesty," Piper said. Everyone's eyes turned toward her. She had to be scared out of her mind, but she looked beautiful and confident-and it had nothing to do with the blessing of Aphrodite. She looked herself again, in day-old traveling clothes with choppy hair and no makeup. But she almost glowed with warmth in that cold throne room. "If you tell us where the storm spirits are, we can capture them and bring them to Aeolus. You'd look good in front of your boss. Aeolus might pardon us and the other demigods. We could even rescue Gleeson Hedge. Everyone wins." "She's pretty," Zethes mumbled. "Imean, she's right." "Father, don't listen to her," Khione said. "She's a child of Aphrodite. She dares to charmspeak a god? Freeze her now!" Boreas considered this. Jason slipped his hand in his pocket and got ready to bring out the gold coin. If things went wrong, he'd have to move fast. The movement caught Boreas's eye. "What is that on your forearm, demigod?" Jason hadn't realized his coat sleeve had gotten pushed up, revealing the edge of his tattoo. Reluctantly, he showed Boreas his marks. The god's eyes widened. Khione actually hissed and stepped away. Then Boreas did something unexpected. He laughed so loudly, an icicle cracked from the ceiling and crashed next to his throne. The god's form began to flicker. His beard disappeared. He grew taller and thinner, and his clothes changed into a Roman toga, lined with purple. His head was crowned with a frosty laurel wreath, and a gladius-a Roman sword like Jason's-hung at his side. "Aquilon," Jason said, though where he got the god's Roman name from, he had no idea. The god inclined his head. "You recognize me better in this form, yes? And yet you said you came from Camp Half-Blood? " Jason shifted his feet. "Uh _ yes, Your Majesty." "And Hera sent you there_" The winter god's eyes were full of mirth. "I understand now. Oh, she plays a dangerous game. Bold, but dangerous! No wonder Olympus is closed. They must be trembling at the gamble she has taken." "Jason," Piper said nervously, "why did Boreas change shape? The toga, the wreath. What's going on?" "It's his Roman form," Jason said. "But what's going on-I don't know." The god laughed. "No, I'm sure you don't. This should be very interesting to watch." "Does that mean you'll let us go?" Piper asked. "My dear," Boreas said, "there is no reason for me to kill you. If Hera's plan fails, which I think it will, you will tear each other apart. Aeolus will never have to worry about demigods again." Jason felt as if Khione's cold fingers were on his neck again, but it wasn't her-it was just the feeling that Boreas was right. That sense of wrongness which had bothered Jason since he got to Camp Half-Blood, and Chiron's comment about his arrival being disastrous-Boreas knew what they meant. "I don't suppose you could explain?" Jason asked. "Oh, perish the thought! It is not for me to interfere in Hera's plan. No wonder she took your memory." Boreas chuckled, apparently still having a great time imagining demigods tearing each other apart. "You know, I have a reputation as a helpful wind god. Unlike my brethren, I've been known to fall in love with mortals. Why, my sons Zethes and Calais started as demigods-" "Which explains why they are idiots," Khione growled. "Stop it!" Zethes snapped back. "Just because you were born a full goddess-" "Both of you, freeze," Boreas ordered. Apparently, that word carried a lot of weight in the household, because the two siblings went absolutely still. "Now, as I was saying, I have a good reputation, but it is rare that Boreas plays an important role in the affairs of gods. I sit here in my palace, at the edge of civilization, and so rarely have amusements. Why, even that fool Notus, the South Wind, gets spring break in Cancun. What do I get? A winter festival with naked Quebecois rolling around in the snow!" "I like the winter festival," Zethes muttered. "My point," Boreas snapped, "is that I now have a chance to be the center. Oh, yes, I will let you go on this quest. You will find your storm spirits in the windy city, of course. Chicago-" "Father!" Khione protested. Boreas ignored his daughter. "If you can capture the winds, you may be able to gain safe entrance to the court of Aeolus. If by some miracle you succeed, be sure to tell him you captured the winds on my orders." "Okay, sure," Jason said. "So Chicago is where we'll find this lady who's controlling the winds? She's the one who's trapped Hera?" "Ah." Boreas grinned. "Those are two different questions, son of Jupiter." Jupiter, Jason noticed. Before, he called me son of Zeus. "The one who controls the winds," Boreas continued, "yes, you will find her in Chicago. But she is only a servant-a servant who is very likely to destroy you. If you succeed against her and take the winds, then you may go to Aeolus. Only he has knowledge of all the winds on the earth. All secrets come to his fortress eventually. If anyone can tell you where Hera is imprisoned, it is Aeolus. As for who you will meet when you finally find Hera's cage-truly, if I told you that, you would beg me to freeze you." "Father," Khione protested, "you can't simply let them-" "I can do what I like," he said, his voice hardening. "I amstill master here, am I not?" The way Boreas glared at his daughter, it was obvious they had some ongoing argument. Khione's eyes flashed with anger, but she clenched her teeth. "As you wish, Father." "Now go, demigods," Boreas said, "before I change my mind. Zethes, escort them out safely." They all bowed, and the god of the North Wind dissolved into mist. Back in the entry hall, Cal and Leo were waiting for them. Leo looked cold but unharmed. He'd even gotten cleaned up, and his clothes looked newly washed, like he'd used the hotel's valet service. Festus the dragon was back in normal form, snorting fire over his scales to keep himself defrosted. As Khione led them down the stairs, Jason noticed that Leo's eyes followed her. Leo started combing his hair back with his hands. Uh-oh, Jason thought. He made a mental note to warn Leo about the snow goddess later. She was not someone to get a crush on. At the bottom step, Khione turned to Piper. "You have fooled my father, girl. But you have not fooled me. We are not done. And you, Jason Grace, I will see you as a statue in the throne room soon enough." "Boreas is right," Jason said. "You're a spoiled kid. See you around, ice princess." Khione's eyes flared pure white. For once, she seemed at a loss for words. She stormed back up the stairs-literally. Halfway up, she turned into a blizzard and disappeared. "Be careful," Zethes warned. "She never forgets an insult." Cal grunted in agreement. "Bad sister." "She's the goddess of snow," Jason said. "What's she going to do, throw snowballs at us?" But as he said it, Jason had a feeling Khione could do a whole lot worse. Leo looked devastated. "What happened up there? You made her mad? Is she mad at me too? Guys, that was my prom date!" "We'll explain later," Piper promised, but when she glanced at Jason, he realized she expected him to explain. What had happened up there? Jason wasn't sure. Boreas had turned into Aquilon, his Roman form, as if Jason's presence caused him to go schizophrenic. The idea that Jason had been sent to Camp Half-Blood seemed to amuse the god, but Boreas/Aquilon hadn't let themgo out of kindness. Cruel excitement had danced in his eyes, as if he'd just placed a bet on a dogfight. You will tear each other apart, he'd said with delight. Aeolus will never have to worry about demigods again. Jason looked away from Piper, trying not to show howunnerved he was. "Yeah," he agreed, "we'll explain later." "Be careful, pretty girl," Zethes said. "The winds between here and Chicago are bad-tempered. Many other evil things are stirring. I am sorry you will not be staying. You would make a lovely ice statue, in which I could check my reflection." "Thanks," Piper said. "But I'd sooner play hockey with Cal." "Hockey?" Cal's eyes lit up. "Joking," Piper said. "And the storm winds aren't our worst problem, are they?" "Oh, no," Zethes agreed. "Something else. Something worse." "Worse," Cal echoed. "Can you tell me?" Piper gave them a smile. This time, the charm didn't work. The purple-winged Boreads shook their heads in unison. The hangar doors opened onto a freezing starry night, and Festus the dragon stomped his feet, anxious to fly. "Ask Aeolus what is worse," Zethes said darkly. "He knows. Good luck." He almost sounded like he cared what happened to them, even though a few minutes ago he'd wanted to make Piper into an ice sculpture. Cal patted Leo on the shoulder. "Don't get destroyed," he said, which was probably the longest sentence he'd ever attempted. "Next time-hockey. Pizza." "Come on, guys." Jason stared out at the dark. He was anxious to get out of that cold penthouse, but he had a feeling it was the most hospitable place they'd see for a while. "Let's go to Chicago and try not to get destroyed." PIPERDIDN'T RELAX UNTIL THEGLOW OFQuebec City faded behind them. "You were amazing," Jason told her. The compliment should've made her day. But all she could think about was the trouble ahead. Evil things are stirring,Zethes had warned them. She knew that firsthand. The closer they got to the solstice, the less time Piper had to make her decision. She told Jason in French: "If you knew the truth about me, you wouldn't think Iwas so amazing." "What'd you say?" he asked. "I said I only talked to Boreas. It wasn't so amazing." She didn't turn to look, but she imagined him smiling. "Hey," he said, "you saved me from joining Khione's subzero hero collection. I owe you one." That was definitely the easy part, she thought. There was no way Piper would've let that ice witch keep Jason. What bothered Piper more was the way Boreas had changed form, and why he'd let them go. It had something to do with Jason's past, those tattoos on his arm. Boreas assumed Jason was some sort of Roman, and Romans didn't mix with Greeks. She kept waiting for Jason to offer an explanation, but he clearly didn't want to talk about it. Until now, Piper had been able to dismiss Jason's feeling that he didn't belong at Camp Half-Blood. Obviously he was a demigod. Of course he belonged. But now _ what if he was something else? What if he really was an enemy? She couldn't stand that idea any more than she could stand Khione. Leo passed them some sandwiches from his pack. He'd been quiet ever since they'd told him what happened in the throne room. "I still can't believe Khione," he said. "She looked so nice." "Trust me, man," Jason said. "Snow may be pretty, but up close it's cold and nasty. We'll find you a better prom date." Piper smiled, but Leo didn't look pleased. He hadn't said much about his time in the palace, or why the Boreads had singled him out for smelling like fire. Piper got the feeling he was hiding something. Whatever it was, his mood seemed to be affecting Festus, who grumbled and steamed as he tried to keep himself warm in the cold Canadian air. Happy the Dragon was not so happy. They ate their sandwiches as they flew. Piper had no idea how Leo had stocked up on supplies, but he'd even remembered to bring veggie rations for her. The cheese and avocado sandwich was awesome. Nobody talked. Whatever they might find in Chicago, they all knew Boreas had only let them go because he figured they were already on a suicide mission. The moon rose and stars turned overhead. Piper's eyes started to feel heavy. The encounter with Boreas and his children had scared her more than she wanted to admit. Nowthat she had a full stomach, her adrenaline was fading. Suck it up, cupcake! Coach Hedge would've yelled at her. Don't be a wimp! Piper had been thinking about the coach ever since Boreas mentioned he was still alive. She'd never liked Hedge, but he'd leaped off a cliff to save Leo, and he'd sacrificed himself to protect them on the skywalk. She now realized that all the times at school the coach had pushed her, yelled at her to run faster or do more push-ups, or even when he'd turned his back and let her fight her own battles with the mean girls, the old goat man had been trying to help her in his own irritating way-trying to prepare her for life as a demigod. On the skywalk, Dylan the storm spirit had said something about the coach, too: how he'd been retired to Wilderness School because he was getting too old, like it was some sort of punishment. Piper wondered what that was about, and if it explained why the coach was always so grumpy. Whatever the truth, now that Piper knew Hedge was alive, she had a strong compulsion to save him. Don't get ahead of yourself, she chided. You've got bigger problems. This trip won't have a happy ending. She was a traitor, just like Silena Beauregard. It was only a matter of time before her friends found out. She looked up at the stars and thought about a night long ago when she and her dad had camped out in front of Grandpa Tom's house. Grandpa Tom had died years before, but Dad had kept his house in Oklahoma because it was where he grew up. They'd gone back for a few days, with the idea of getting the place fixed up to sell, although Piper wasn't sure who'd want to buy a run-down cabin with shutters instead of windows and two tiny rooms that smelled like cigars. The first night had been so stifling hot-no air conditioning in the middle of August-that Dad suggested they sleep outside. They'd spread their sleeping bags and listened to the cicadas buzzing in the trees. Piper pointed out the constellations she'd been reading about-Hercules, Apollo's lyre, Sagittarius the centaur. Her dad crossed his arms behind his head. In his old Tshirt and jeans he looked like just another guy from Tahlequah, Oklahoma, a Cherokee who might've never left tribal lands. "Your grandpa would say those Greek patterns are a bunch of bull. He told me the stars were creatures with glowing fur, like magic hedgehogs. Once, long ago, some hunters even captured a few in the forest. They didn't know what they'd done until nighttime, when the star creatures began to glow. Golden sparks flew from their fur, so the Cherokee released them back into the sky." "You believe in magic hedgehogs?" Piper asked. Her dad laughed. "I think Grandpa Tom was full of bull, too, just like the Greeks. But it's a big sky. I suppose there's roomfor Hercules and hedgehogs." They sat for a while, until Piper got the nerve to ask a question that had been bugging her. "Dad, why don't you ever play Native American parts?" The week before, he'd turned down several million dollars to play Tonto in a remake of The Lone Ranger. Piper was still trying to figure out why. He'd played all kinds of roles-a Latino teacher in a tough L.A. school, a dashing Israeli spy in an action-adventure blockbuster, even a Syrian terrorist in a James Bond movie.And, of course, he would always be known as the King of Sparta. But if the part was Native American-it didn't matter what kind of role it was-Dad turned it down. He winked at her. "Too close to home, Pipes. Easier to pretend I'm something I'm not." "Doesn't that get old? Aren't you ever tempted, like, if you found the perfect part that could change people's opinions?" "If there's a part like that, Pipes," he said sadly, "I haven't found it." She looked at the stars, trying to imagine them as glowing hedgehogs. All she saw were the stick figures she knew-Hercules running across the sky, on his way to kill monsters. Dad was probably right. The Greeks and the Cherokee were equally crazy. The stars were just balls of fire. "Dad," she said, "if you don't like being close to home, why are we sleeping inGrandpa Tom's yard?" His laughter echoed in the quiet Oklahoma night. "I think you know me too well, Pipes." "You're not really going to sell this place, are you?" "Nope," he sighed. "I'm probably not." Piper blinked, shaking herself out of the memory. She realized she'd been falling asleep on the dragon's back. Howcould her dad pretend to be so many things he wasn't? She was trying to do that now, and it was tearing her apart. Maybe she could pretend for a little while longer. She could dream of finding a way to save her father without betraying her friends-even if right now a happy ending seemed about as likely as magic hedgehogs. She leaned back against Jason's warm chest. He didn't complain. As soon she closed her eyes, she drifted off to sleep. In her dream, she was back on the mountaintop. The ghostly purple bonfire cast shadows across the trees. Piper's eyes stung from smoke, and the ground was so warm, the soles of her boots felt sticky. A voice from the dark rumbled, "You forget your duty." Piper couldn't see him, but it was definitely her least favorite giant-the one who called himself Enceladus. She looked around for any sign of her father, but the pole where he'd been chained was no longer there. "Where is he?" she demanded. "What've you done with him?" The giant's laugh was like lava hissing down a volcano. "His body is safe enough, though I fear the poor man's mind can't take much more of my company. For some reason he finds me-disturbing. You must hurry, girl, or I fear there will be little left of him to save." "Let him go!" she screamed. "Take me instead. He's just a mortal!" "But, my dear," the giant rumbled, "we must prove our love for our parents. That's what I'm doing. Show me you value your father's life by doing what I ask. Who's more important-your father, or a deceitful goddess who used you, toyed with your emotions, manipulated your memories, eh? What is Hera to you?" Piper began to tremble. So much anger and fear boiled inside her, she could hardly talk. "You're asking me to betray my friends." "Sadly, my dear, your friends are destined to die. Their quest is impossible. Even if you succeeded, you heard the prophecy: unleashing Hera's rage would mean your destruction. The only question now-will you die with your friends, or live with your father?" The bonfire roared. Piper tried to step back, but her feet were heavy. She realized the ground was pulling her down, clinging to her boots like wet sand. When she looked up, a shower of purple sparks had spread across the sky, and the sun was rising in the east. A patchwork of cities glowed in the valley below, and far to the west, over a line of rolling hills, she saw a familiar landmark rising from a sea of fog. "Why are you showing me this?" Piper asked. "You're revealing where you are." "Yes, you know this place," the giant said. "Lead your friends here instead of their true destination, and Iwill deal with them. Or even better, arrange their deaths before you arrive. I don't care which. Just be at the summit by noon on the solstice, and you may collect your father and go in peace." "I can't," Piper said. "You can't ask me-" "To betray that foolish boy Valdez, who always irritated you and is now hiding secrets from you? To give up a boyfriend you never really had? Is that more important than your own father?" "I'll find a way to defeat you," Piper said. "I'll save my father and my friends." The giant growled in the shadows. "I was once proud too. I thought the gods could never defeat me. Then they hurled a mountain on top of me, crushed me into the ground, where I struggled for eons, half-conscious in pain. That taught me patience, girl. It taught me not to act rashly. Now I've clawed my way back with the help of the waking earth. I am only the first. My brethren will follow. We will not be denied our vengeance My brethren will follow. We will not be denied our vengeance -not this time. And you, Piper McLean, need a lesson in humility. I'll show you how easily your rebellious spirit can be brought to earth." The dream dissolved.And Piper woke up screaming, freefalling through the air. PIPER THUMBLED THROUGH THE SKY. Far below she saw city lights glimmering in the early dawn, and several hundred yards away the body of the bronze dragon spinning out of control, its wings limp, fire flickering in its mouth like a badly wired lightbulb. A body shot past her-Leo, screaming and frantically grabbing at the clouds. "Not coooooool!" She tried to call to him, but he was already too far below. Somewhere above her, Jason yelled, "Piper, level out! Extend your arms and legs!" It was hard to control her fear, but she did what he said and regained some balance. She fell spread-eagle like a skydiver, the wind underneath her like a solid block of ice. Then Jason was there, wrapping his arms around her waist. Thank god, Piper thought. But part of her also thought: Great. Second time this week he's hugged me, and both times it's because I'm plummeting to my death. "We have to get Leo!" she shouted. Their fall slowed as Jason controlled the winds, but they still lurched up and down like the winds didn't want to cooperate. "Gonna get rough," Jason warned. "Hold on!" Piper locked her arms around him, and Jason shot toward the ground. Piper probably screamed, but the sound was ripped from her mouth. Her vision blurred. And then, thump! They slammed into another warm body -Leo, still wriggling and cursing. "Stop fighting!" Jason said. "It's me!" "My dragon!" Leo yelled. "You gotta save Festus!" Jason was already struggling to keep the three of themaloft, and Piper knew there was no way he could help a fifty-ton metal dragon. But before she could try to reason with Leo, she heard an explosion below them. A fireball rolled into the sky from behind a warehouse complex, and Leo sobbed, "Festus!" Jason's face reddened with strain as he tried to maintain an air cushion beneath them, but intermittent slow-downs were the best he could manage. Rather than free-falling, it felt like they were bouncing down a giant staircase, a hundred feet at a time, which wasn't doing Piper's stomach any favors. As they wobbled and zigzagged, Piper could make out details of the factory complex below-warehouses, smokestacks, barbed-wire fences, and parking lots lined with snow-covered vehicles. They were still high enough so that hitting the ground would flatten them into roadkill-or skykill -when Jason groaned, "I can't-" And they dropped like stones. They hit the roof of the largest warehouse and crashed through into darkness. Unfortunately, Piper tried to land on her feet. Her feet didn't like that. Pain flared in her left ankle as she crumpled against a cold metal surface. For a few seconds she wasn't conscious of anything but pain-pain so bad that her ears rang and her vision went red. Then she heard Jason's voice somewhere below, echoing through the building. "Piper! Where's Piper?" "Ow, bro!" Leo groaned. "That's my back! I'm not a sofa! Piper, where'd you go?" "Here," she managed, her voice a whimper. She heard shuffling and grunting, then feet pounding on metal steps. Her vision began to clear. She was on a metal catwalk that ringed the warehouse interior. Leo and Jason had landed on ground level, and were now coming up the stairs toward her. She looked at her foot, and wave of nausea swept over her. Her toes weren't supposed to point that way, were they? Oh, god. She forced herself to look away before she threwup. Focus on something else.Anything else. The hole they'd made in the roof was a ragged starburst twenty feet above. How they'd even survived that drop, she had no idea. Hanging from the ceiling, a few electric bulbs flickered dimly, but they didn't do much to light the enormous space. Next to Piper, the corrugated metal wall was emblazoned with a company logo, but it was almost completely spray-painted over with graffiti. Down in the shadowy warehouse, she could make out huge machines, robotic arms, half-finished trucks on an assembly line. The place looked like it had been abandoned for years. Jason and Leo reached her side. Leo started to ask, "You okay _ ?" Then he saw her foot. "Oh no, you're not." "Thanks for the reassurance," Piper groaned. "You'll be fine," Jason said, though Piper could hear the worry in his voice. "Leo, you got any first aid supplies?" "Yeah-yeah, sure." He dug around in his tool belt and pulled out a wad of gauze and a roll of duct tape-both of which seemed too big for the belt's pockets. Piper had noticed the tool belt yesterday morning, but she hadn't thought to ask Leo about it. It didn't look like anything special-just one of those wraparound leather aprons with a bunch of pockets, like a blacksmith or a carpenter might wear. And it seemed to be empty. "How did you-" Piper tried to sit up, and winced. "Howdid pull that stuff from an empty belt?" "Magic," Leo said. "Haven't figure it out completely, but I can summon just about any regular tool out of the pockets, plus some other helpful stuff." He reached into another pocket and pulled out a little tin box. "Breath mint?" Jason snatched away the mints. "That's great, Leo. Now, can you fix her foot?" "I'm a mechanic, man. Maybe if she was a car _" He snapped his fingers. "Wait, what was that godly healing stuffthey fed you at camp-Rambo food?" "Ambrosia, dummy," Piper said through gritted teeth. "There should be some in my bag, if it's not crushed." Jason carefully pulled her backpack off her shoulders. He rummaged through the supplies the Aphrodite kids had packed for her, and found a Ziploc full of smashed pastry squares like lemon bars. He broke off a piece and fed it to her. The taste was nothing like she expected. It reminded her of Dad's black bean soup from when she was a little girl. He used to feed it to her whenever she got sick. The memory relaxed her, though it made her sad. The pain in her ankle subsided. "More," she said. Jason frowned. "Piper, we shouldn't risk it. They said too much could burn you up. I think I should try to set your foot." Piper's stomach fluttered. "Have you ever done that before?" "Yeah _ I think so." Leo found an old piece of wood and broke it in half for a splint. Then he got the gauze and duct tape ready. "Hold her leg still," Jason told him. "Piper, this is going to hurt." When Jason set the foot, Piper flinched so hard she punched Leo in the arm, and he yelled almost as much as she did. When her vision cleared and she could breathe normally again, she found that her foot was pointing the right way, her ankle splinted with plywood, gauze, and duct tape. "Ow," she said. "Jeez, beauty queen!" Leo rubbed his arm. "Glad my face wasn't there." "Sorry," she said. "And don't call me 'beauty queen,' or I'll punch you again." "You both did great." Jason found a canteen in Piper's pack and gave her some water. After a few minutes, her stomach began to calm down. Once she wasn't screaming in pain, she could hear the wind howling outside. Snowflakes fluttered through the hole in the roof, and after their meeting with Khione, snow was the last thing Piper wanted to see. "What happened to the dragon?" she asked. "Where are we?" Leo's expression turned sullen. "I don't know with Festus. He just jerked sideways like he hit an invisible wall and started to fall." Piper remembered Enceladus's warning: I'll show you howeasily your rebellious spirit can be brought to earth. Had he managed to strike them down from so far away? It seemed impossible. If he were that powerful, why would he need her to betray her friends when he could just kill them himself? And how could the giant be keeping an eye on her in a snowstormthousands of miles away? Leo pointed to the logo on the wall. "As far as where we are _" It was hard to see through the graffiti, but Piper could make out a large red eye with the stenciled words: monocle motors, assembly plant 1. "Closed car plant," Leo said. "I'm guessing we crashlanded in Detroit." Piper had heard about closed car plants in Detroit, so that made sense. But it seemed like a pretty depressing place to land. "How far is that from Chicago?" Jason handed her the canteen. "Maybe three-fourths of the way from Quebec? The thing is, without the dragon, we're stuck traveling overland." "No way," Leo said. "It isn't safe." Piper thought about the way the ground had pulled at her feet in the dream, and what King Boreas had said about the earth yielding up more horrors. "He's right. Besides, I don't know if I can walk. And three people-Jason, you can't fly that many across country by yourself." "No way," Jason said. "Leo, are you sure the dragon didn't malfunction? Imean, Festus is old, and-" "And Imight not have repaired him right?" "I didn't say that," Jason protested. "It's just-maybe you could fix it." "I don't know." Leo sounded crestfallen. He pulled a fewscrews out of his pockets and started fiddling with them. "I'd have to find where he landed, if he's even in one piece." "It was my fault." Piper said without thinking. She just couldn't stand it anymore. The secret about her father was heating up inside her like too much ambrosia. If she kept lying to her friends, she felt like she'd burn to ashes. "Piper," Jason said gently, "you were asleep when Festus conked out. It couldn't be your fault." "Yeah, you're just shaken up," Leo agreed. He didn't even try to make a joke at her expense. "You're in pain. Just rest." She wanted to tell them everything, but the words stuck in her throat. They were both being so kind to her. Yet if Enceladus was watching her somehow, saying the wrong thing could get her father killed. Leo stood. "Look, um, Jason, why don't you stay with her, bro? I'll scout around for Festus. I think he fell outside the warehouse somewhere. If I can find him, maybe I can figure out what happened and fix him." "It's too dangerous," Jason said. "You shouldn't go by yourself." "Ah, I got duct tape and breath mints. I'll be fine," Leo said, a little too quickly, and Piper realized he was a lot more shaken up than he was letting on. "You guys just don't run off without me." Leo reached into his magic tool belt, pulled out a flashlight, and headed down the stairs, leaving Piper and Jason alone. Jason gave her a smile, though he looked kind of nervous. It was the exact expression he'd had on his face after he'd kissed her the first time, up on the Wilderness School dormroof-that cute little scar on his lip curving into a crescent. The memory gave her a warm feeling. Then she remembered that the kiss had never really happened. "You look better," Jason offered. Piper wasn't sure if he meant her foot, or the fact that she wasn't magically beautified anymore. Her jeans were tattered from the fall through the roof. Her boots were splattered with melted dirty snow. She didn't know what her face looked like, but probably horrible. Why did it matter? She'd never cared about things like that before. She wondered if it was her stupid mother, the goddess of love, messing with her thoughts. If Piper started getting urges to read fashion magazines, she was going to have to find Aphrodite and smack her. She decided to focus on her ankle instead. As long as she didn't move it, the pain wasn't bad. "You did a good job," she told Jason. "Where'd you learn first aid?" He shrugged. "Same answer as always. I don't know." "But you're starting to have some memories, aren't you? Like that prophecy in Latin back at camp, or that dream about the wolf." "It's fuzzy," he said. "Like deja vu. Ever forgotten a word or a name, and you know it should be on the tip of your tongue, but it isn't? It's like that-only with my whole life." Piper sort of knew what he meant. The last three months -a life she thought she'd had, a relationship with Jason-had turned out to be Mist. A boyfriend you never really had , Enceladus had said. Is that more important than your own father? She should've kept her mouth shut, but she voiced the question that had been on her mind since yesterday. "That photo in your pocket," she said. "Is that someone from your past?" Jason pulled back. "I'm sorry," she said. "None of my business. Forget it." "No-it's okay." His features relaxed. "Just, I'm trying to figure things out. Her name's Thalia. She's my sister. I don't remember any details. I'm not even sure how I know, but-um, why are you smiling?" "Nothing." Piper tried to kill the smile. Not an old girlfriend. She felt ridiculously happy. "Um, it's just-that's great you remembered. Annabeth told me she became a Hunter of Artemis, right?" Jason nodded. "I get the feeling I'm supposed to find her. Hera left me that memory for a reason. It's got something to do with this quest. But _ I also have the feeling it could be dangerous. I'm not sure Iwant to find out the truth. Is that crazy? " "No," Piper said. "Not at all." She stared at the logo on the wall: monocle motors, the single red eye. Something about that logo bothered her. Maybe it was the idea Enceladus was watching her, holding her father for leverage. She had to save him, but howcould she betray her friends? "Jason," she said. "Speaking of the truth, I need to tell you something-something about my dad-" She didn't get the chance. Somewhere below, metal clanged against metal, like a door slamming shut. The sound echoed through the warehouse. Jason stood. He took out his coin and flipped it, snatching his golden sword out of the air. He peered over the railing. "Leo?" he called. No answer. He crouched next to Piper. "I don't like this." "He could be in trouble," Piper said. "Go check." "I can't leave you alone." "I'll be fine." She felt terrified, but she wasn't about to admit it. She drew her dagger Katoptris and tried to look confident. "Anyone gets close, I'll skewer them." Jason hesitated. "I'll leave you the pack. If I'm not back in five minutes-" "Panic?" she suggested. He managed a smile. "Glad you're back to normal. The makeup and the dress were a lot more intimidating than the dagger." "Get going, Sparky, before I skewer you." "Sparky?" Even offended, Jason looked hot. It wasn't fair. Then he made his way to the stairs and disappeared into the dark. Piper counted her breaths, trying to gauge how much time had passed. She lost track at around forty-three. Then something in the warehouse went bang! The echo died. Piper's heart pounded, but she didn't call out. Her instincts told her it might not be a good idea. She stared at her splinted ankle. It's not like I can run. Then she looked up again at the Monocle Motors sign. A little voice in her head pestered her, warning of danger. Something from Greek mythology _ Her hand went to her backpack. She took out the ambrosia squares. Too much would burn her up, but would a little more fix her ankle? Boom. The sound was closer this time, directly below her. She dug out a whole square of ambrosia and stuffed it in her mouth. Her heart raced faster. Her skin felt feverish. Hesitantly, she flexed her ankle against the splint. No pain, no stiffness at all. She cut through the duct tape with her dagger and heard heavy steps on the stairs-like metal boots. Had it been five minutes? Longer? The steps didn't sound like Jason, but maybe he was carrying Leo. Finally she couldn't stand it. Gripping her dagger, she called out, "Jason?" "Yeah," he said from the darkness. "On my way up." Definitely Jason's voice. So why did all her instincts say Run? With effort, she got to her feet. The steps came closer. "It's okay," Jason's voice promised. At the top of the stairs, a face appeared out of the darkness-a hideous black grin, a smashed nose, and a single bloodshot eye in the middle of his forehead. "It's fine," the Cyclops said, in a perfect imitation of Jason's voice. "You're just in time for dinner." LEOWISHEDTHEDRAGONHADN'TLANDEDon the toilets. Of all the places to crash, a line of Porta-Potties would not have been his first choice. A dozen of the blue plastic boxes had been set up in the factory yard, and Festus had flattened them all. Fortunately, they hadn't been used in a long time, and the fireball from the crash incinerated most of the contents; but still, there were some pretty gross chemicals leaking out of the wreckage. Leo had to pick his way through and try not to breathe through his nose. Heavy snow was coming down, but the dragon's hide was still steaming hot. Of course, that didn't bother Leo. After a few minutes climbing over Festus's inanimate body, Leo started to get irritated. The dragon looked perfectly fine. Yes, it had fallen out of the sky and landed with a big kaboom, but its body wasn't even dented. The fireball had apparently come from built up gasses inside the toilet units, not from the dragon itself. Festus's wings were intact. Nothing seemed broken. There was no reason it should have stopped. "Not my fault," he muttered. "Festus, you're making me look bad." Then he opened the control panel on the dragon's head, and Leo's heart sank. "Oh, Festus, what the heck?" The wiring had frozen over. Leo knew it had been okay yesterday. He'd worked so hard to repair the corroded lines, but something had caused a flash freeze inside the dragon's skull, where it should've been too hot for ice to form. The ice had caused the wiring to overload and char the control disk. Leo couldn't see any reason that would've happened. Sure, the dragon was old, but still, it didn't make sense. He could replace the wires. That wasn't the problem. But the charred control disk was not good. The Greek letters and pictures carved around the edges, which probably held all kinds of magic, were blurred and blackened. The one piece of hardware Leo couldn't replace-and it was damaged. Again. He imagined his mom's voice: Most problems look worse than they are, mijo. Nothing is unfixable. His mom could repair just about anything, but Leo was pretty sure she'd never worked on a fifty-year-old magic metal dragon. He clenched his teeth and decided he had to try. He wasn't walking from Detroit to Chicago in a snowstorm, and he wasn't going to be responsible for stranding his friends. "Right," he muttered, brushing the snow off his shoulders. "Gimme a nylon bristle detail brush, some nitrile gloves, and maybe a can of that aerosol cleaning solvent." The tool belt obliged. Leo couldn't help smiling as he pulled out the supplies. The belt's pockets did have limits. They wouldn't give him anything magic, like Jason's sword, or anything huge, like a chain saw. He'd tried asking for both. And if he asked for too many things at once, the belt needed a cooldown time before it could work again. The more complicated the request, the longer the cooldown. But anything small and simple like you might find around a workshop-all Leo had to do was ask. He began cleaning off the control disk. While he worked, snow collected on the cooling dragon. Leo had to stop fromtime to time to summon fire and melt it away, but mostly he went into autopilot mode, his hands working by themselves as his thoughts wandered. Leo couldn't believe how stupid he'd acted back at Boreas's palace. He should've figured a family of winter gods would hate him on sight. Son of the fire god flying a firebreathing dragon into an ice penthouse-yeah, maybe not the best move. Still, he hated feeling like a reject. Jason and Piper got to visit the throne room. Leo got to wait in the lobby with Cal, the demigod of hockey and major head injuries. Fire is bad, Cal had told him. That pretty much summed it up. Leo knew he couldn't keep the truth from his friends much longer. Ever since Camp Half-Blood, one line of that Great Prophecy kept coming back to him: To storm or fire the world must fall. And Leo was the fire guy, the first one since 1666 when London had burned down. If he told his friends what he could really do-Hey, guess what, guys? I might destroy the world!-why would anyone welcome him back at camp? Leo would have to go on the run again. Even though he knew that drill, the idea depressed him. Then there was Khione. Dang, that girl was fine. Leo knewhe'd acted like a total fool, but he couldn't help himself. He'd had his clothes cleaned with the one-hour valet service -which had been totally sweet, by the way. He'd combed his hair-never an easy job-and even discovered the tool bag could make breath mints, all in hopes that he could get close to her. Naturally, no such luck. Getting frozen out-story of his life-by his relatives, foster homes, you name it. Even at Wilderness School, Leo had spent the last few weeks feeling like a third wheel as Jason and Piper, his only friends, became a couple. He was happy for them and all, but still it made him feel like they didn't need him anymore. When he'd found out that Jason's whole time at school had been an illusion-a kind of a memory burp-Leo had been secretly excited. It was a chance for a reset. Now Jason and Piper were heading toward being a couple again-that was obvious from the way they'd acted in the warehouse just now, like they wanted to talk in private without Leo around. What had he expected? He'd wind up the odd man out again. Khione had just given him the cold shoulder a little quicker than most. "Enough, Valdez," he scolded himself. "Nobody's going to play any violins for you just because you're not important. Fix the stupid dragon." He got so involved with his work, he wasn't sure how much time had passed before he heard the voice. You're wrong, Leo, it said. He fumbled his brush and dropped it into the dragon's head. He stood, but he couldn't see who'd spoken. Then he looked at the ground. Snow and chemical sludge from the toilets, even the asphalt itself was shifting like it was turning to liquid. A ten-foot-wide area formed eyes, a nose, and a mouth -the giant face of a sleeping woman. She didn't exactly speak. Her lips didn't move. But Leo could hear her voice in his head, as if the vibrations were coming through the ground, straight into his feet and resonating up his skeleton. They need you desperately, she said. In some ways, you are the most important of the seven-like the control disk in the dragon's brain. Without you, the power of the others means nothing. They will never reach me, never stop me. And I will fully wake. "You." Leo was shaking so badly he wasn't sure he'd spoken aloud. He hadn't heard that voice since he was eight, but it was her: the earthen woman from the machine shop. "You killed my mom." The face shifted. The mouth formed a sleepy smile like it was having a pleasant dream. Ah, but Leo. I am your mother too-the First Mother. Do not oppose me. Walk away now. Let my son Porphyrion rise and become king, and I will ease your burdens. You will tread lightly on the earth. Leo grabbed the nearest thing he could find-a PortaPotty seat-and threw it at the face. "Leave me alone!" The toilet seat sank into the liquid earth. Snow and sludge rippled, and the face dissolved. Leo stared at the ground, waiting for the face to reappear. But it didn't. Leo wanted to think he'd imagined it. Then from the direction of the factory, he heard a crash -like two dump trucks slamming together. Metal crumpled and groaned, and the noise echoed across the yard. Instantly Leo knew that Jason and Piper were in trouble. Walk away now, the voice had urged. "Not likely," Leo growled. "Gimme the biggest hammer you got." He reached into his tool belt and pulled out a three-pound club hammer with a double-faced head the size of a baked potato. Then he jumped off the dragon's back and ran toward the warehouse. LEOSTOPPEDATTHEDOORSANDTRIED to control his breathing. The voice of the earth woman still rang in his ears, reminding him of his mother's death. The last thing he wanted to do was plunge into another dark warehouse. Suddenly he felt eight years old again, alone and helpless as someone he cared about was trapped and in trouble. Stop it, he told himself. That's how she wants you to feel. But that didn't make him any less scared. He took a deep breath and peered inside. Nothing looked different. Gray morning light filtered through the hole in the roof. A fewlightbulbs flickered, but most of the factory floor was still lost in shadows. He could make out the catwalk above, the dimshapes of heavy machinery along the assembly line, but no movement. No sign of his friends. He almost called out, but something stopped him-a sense he couldn't identify. Then he realized it was smell. Something smelled wrong-like burning motor oil and sour breath. Something not human was inside the factory. Leo was certain. His body shifted into high gear, all his nerves tingling. Somewhere on the factory floor, Piper's voice cried out: "Leo, help!" But Leo held his tongue. How could Piper have gotten offthe catwalk with her broken ankle? He slipped inside and ducked behind a cargo container. Slowly, gripping his hammer, he worked his way toward the center of the room, hiding behind boxes and hollow truck chassis. Finally he reached the assembly line. He crouched behind the nearest piece of machinery-a crane with a robotic arm. Piper's voice called out again: "Leo?" Less certain this time, but very close. Leo peeked around the machinery. Hanging directly above the assembly line, suspended by a chain from a crane on the opposite side, was a massive truck engine-just dangling thirty feet up, as if it had been left there when the factory was abandoned. Below it on the conveyor belt sat a truck chassis, and clustered around it were three dark shapes the size of forklifts. Nearby, dangling from chains on two other robotic arms, were two smaller shapes-maybe more engines, but one of them was twisting around as if it were alive. Then one of the forklift shapes rose, and Leo realized it was a humanoid of massive size. "Told you it was nothing," the thing rumbled. Its voice was too deep and feral to be human. One of the other forklift-sized lumps shifted, and called out in Piper's voice: "Leo, help me! Help-" Then the voice changed, becoming a masculine snarl. "Bah, there's nobody out there. No demigod could be that quiet, eh?" The first monster chuckled. "Probably ran away, if he knows what's good for him. Or the girl was lying about a third demigod. Let's get cooking." Snap. A bright orange light sizzled to life-an emergency flare-and Leo was temporarily blinded. He ducked behind the crane until the spots cleared from his eyes. Then he took another peep and saw a nightmare scene even Tia Callida couldn't have dreamed up. The two smaller things dangling from crane arms weren't engines. They were Jason and Piper. Both hung upside down, tied by their ankles and cocooned with chains up to their necks. Piper was flailing around, trying to free herself. Her mouth was gagged, but at least she was alive. Jason didn't look so good. He hung limply, his eyes rolled up in his head. A red welt the size of an apple had swollen over his left eyebrow. On the conveyor belt, the bed of the unfinished pickup truck was being used as a fire pit. The emergency flare had ignited a mixture of tires and wood, which, from the smell of it, had been doused in kerosene. A big metal pole was suspended over the flames-a spit, Leo realized, which meant this was a cooking fire. But most terrifying of all were the cooks. Monocle Motors: that single red eye logo. Why hadn't Leo realized? Three massive humanoids gathered around the fire. Two were standing, stoking the flames. The largest one crouched with his back to Leo. The two facing him were each ten feet tall, with hairy muscular bodies and skin that glowed red in the firelight. One of the monsters wore a chain mail loincloth that looked really uncomfortable. The other wore a ragged fuzzy toga made of fiberglass insulation, which also would not have made Leo's top ten wardrobe ideas. Other than that, the two monsters could've been twins. Each had a brutish face with a single eye in the center of his forehead. The cooks were Cyclopes. Leo's legs started quaking. He'd seen some weird things so far-storm spirits and winged gods and a metal dragon that liked Tabasco sauce. But this was different. These were actual, flesh-and-blood, ten-foot-tall living monsters who wanted to eat his friends for dinner. He was so terrified he could hardly think. If only he had Festus. He could use a fire-breathing sixty-foot-long tank about now. But all he had was a tool belt and a backpack. His threepound club hammer looked awfully small compared to those Cyclopes. This is what the sleeping earth lady had been talking about. She wanted Leo to walk away and leave his friends to die. That decided it. No way was Leo going to let that earth lady make him feel powerless-never again. Leo slipped offhis backpack and quietly started to unzip it. The Cyclops in the chain mail loincloth walked over to Piper, who squirmed and tried to head-butt him in the eye. "Can I take her gag off now? I like it when they scream." The question was directed at the third Cyclops, apparently the leader. The crouching figure grunted, and Loincloth ripped the gag off Piper's mouth. She didn't scream. She took a shaky breath like she was trying to keep herself calm. Meanwhile, Leo found what he wanted in the pack: a stack of tiny remote control units he'd picked up in Bunker 9. At least h e hoped that's what they were. The robotic crane's maintenance panel was easy to find. He slipped a screwdriver from his tool belt and went to work, but he had to go slowly. The leader Cyclops was only twenty feet in front of him. The monsters obviously had excellent senses. Pulling off his plan without making noise seemed impossible, but he didn't have much choice. The Cyclops in the toga poked at the fire, which was nowblazing away and billowing noxious black smoke toward the ceiling. His buddy Loincloth glowered at Piper, waiting for her to do something entertaining. "Scream, girl! I like funny screaming!" When Piper finally spoke, her tone was calm and reasonable, like she was correcting a naughty puppy. "Oh, Mr. Cyclops, you don't want to kill us. It would be much better if you let us go." Loincloth scratched his ugly head. He turned to his friend in the fiberglass toga. "She's kind of pretty, Torque. Maybe I should let her go." Torque, the dude in the toga, growled. "I saw her first, Sump. I'll let her go!" Sump and Torque started to argue, but the third Cyclops rose and shouted, "Fools!" Leo almost dropped his screwdriver. The third Cyclops was a female. She was several feet taller than Torque or Sump, and even beefier. She wore a tent of chain mail cut like one of those sack dresses Leo's mean Aunt Rosa used to wear. What'd they call that-a muumuu? Yeah, the Cyclops lady had a chain mail muumuu. Her greasy black hair was matted in pigtails, woven with copper wires and metal washers. Her nose and mouth were thick and smashed together, like she spent her free time ramming her face into walls; but her single red eye glittered with evil intelligence. The woman Cyclops stalked over to Sump and pushed him aside, knocking him over the conveyor belt. Torque backed up quickly. "The girl is Venus spawn," the lady Cyclops snarled. "She's using charmspeak on you." Piper started to say, "Please, ma'am-" "Rarr!" The lady Cyclops grabbed Piper around the waist. "Don't try your pretty talk on me, girl! I'm Ma Gasket! I've eaten heroes tougher than you for lunch!" Leo feared Piper would get crushed, but Ma Gasket just dropped her and let her dangle from her chain. Then she started yelling at Sump about how stupid he was. Leo's hands worked furiously. He twisted wires and turned switches, hardly thinking about what he was doing. He finished attaching the remote. Then he crept over to the next robotic arm while the Cyclopes were talking. "-eat her last, Ma?" Sump was saying. "Idiot!" Ma Gasket yelled, and Leo realized Sump and Torque must be her sons. If so, ugly definitely ran in the family. "I should've thrown you out on the streets when you were babies, like proper Cyclops children. You might have learned some useful skills. Curse my soft heart that I kept you!" "Soft heart?" Torque muttered. "What was that, you ingrate?" "Nothing, Ma. I said you got a soft heart. We get to work for you, feed you, file your toenails-" "And you should be grateful!" Ma Gasket bellowed. "Now, stoke the fire, Torque! And Sump, you idiot, my case of salsa is in the other warehouse. Don't tell me you expect me to eat these demigods without salsa!" "Yes, Ma," Sump said. "Imean no, Ma. Imean-" "Go get it!" Ma Gasket picked up a nearby truck chassis and slammed it over Sump's head. Sump crumpled to his knees. Leo was sure a hit like that would kill him, but Sump apparently got hit by trucks a lot. He managed to push the chassis off his head. Then he staggered to his feet and ran offto fetch the salsa. Now's the time, Leo thought. While they're separated. He finished wiring the second machine and moved toward a third. As he dashed between robotic arms, the Cyclopes didn't see him, but Piper did. Her expression turned from terror to disbelief, and she gasped. Ma Gasket turned to her. "What's the matter, girl? So fragile I broke you?" Thankfully, Piper was a quick thinker. She looked away from Leo and said, "I think it's my ribs, ma'am. If I'm busted up inside, I'll taste terrible." Ma Gasket bellowed with laughter. "Good one. The last hero we ate-remember him, Torque? Son of Mercury, wasn't he?" "Yes, Ma," Torque said. "Tasty. Little bit stringy." "He tried a trick like that. Said he was on medication. But he tasted fine!" "Tasted like mutton," Torque recalled. "Purple shirt. Talked in Latin. Yes, a bit stringy, but good." Leo's fingers froze on the maintenance panel. Apparently, Piper was having the same thought he was, because she asked, "Purple shirt? Latin?" "Good eating," Ma Gasket said fondly. "Point is, girl, we're not as dumb as people think! We're not falling for those stupid tricks and riddles, not us northern Cyclopes." Leo forced himself back to work, but his mind was racing. A kid who spoke Latin had been caught here-in a purple shirt like Jason's? He didn't know what that meant, but he had to leave the interrogation to Piper. If he was going to have any chance of defeating these monsters, he had to move fast before Sump came back with the salsa. He looked up at the engine block suspended right above the Cyclopes' campsite. He wished he could use that-it would make a great weapon. But the crane holding it was on the opposite side of the conveyor belt. There was no way Leo could get over there without being seen, and besides, he was running short on time. The last part of his plan was the trickiest. From his tool belt he summoned some wires, a radio adapter, and a smaller screwdriver and started to build a universal remote. For the first time, he said a silent thank-you to his dad-Hephaestus -for the magic tool belt. Get me out of here, he prayed, and maybe you're not such a jerk. Piper kept talking, laying on the praise. "Oh, I've heard about the northern Cyclopes!" Which Leo figured was bull, but she sounded convincing. "I never knew you were so big and clever!" "Flattery won't work either," Ma Gasket said, though she sounded pleased. "It's true, you'll be breakfast for the best Cyclopes around." "But aren't Cyclopes good?" Piper asked. "I thought you made weapons for the gods." "Bah! I'm very good. Good at eating people. Good at smashing. And good at building things, yes, but not for the gods. Our cousins, the elder Cyclopes, they do this, yes. Thinking they're so high and mighty 'cause they're a fewthousand years older. Then there's our southern cousins, living on islands and tending sheep. Morons! But we Hyperborean Cyclopes, the northern clan, we're the best! Founded Monocle Motors in this old factory-the best weapons, armor, chariots, fuel-efficient SUVs! And yet-bah! Forced to shut down. Laid off most of our tribe. The war was too quick. Titans lost. No good! No more need for Cyclops weapons." "Oh, no," Piper sympathized. "I'm sure you made some amazing weapons." Torque grinned. "Squeaky war hammer!" He picked up a large pole with an accordion-looking metal box on the end. He slammed it against the floor and the cement cracked, but there was also a sound like the world's largest rubber ducky getting stomped. "Terrifying," Piper said. Torque looked pleased. "Not as good as the exploding ax, but this one can be used more than once." "Can I see it?" Piper asked. "If you could just free my hands-" Torque stepped forward eagerly, but Ma Gasket said, "Stupid! She's tricking you again. Enough talk! Slay the boy first before he dies on his own. I like my meat fresh." N o ! Leo's fingers flew, connecting the wires for the remote. Just a fewmore minutes! "Hey, wait," Piper said, trying to get the Cyclopes' attention. "Hey, can I just ask-" The wires sparked in Leo's hand. The Cyclopes froze and turned in his direction. Then Torque picked up a truck and threw it at him. Leo rolled as the truck steamrolled over the machinery. If he'd been a half-second slower, he would've been smashed. He got to his feet, and Ma Gasket spotted him. She yelled, "Torque, you pathetic excuse for a Cyclops, get him!" Torque barreled toward him. Leo frantically gunned the toggle on his makeshift remote. Torque was fifty feet away. Twenty feet. Then the first robotic arm whirred to life. A three-ton yellowmetal claw slammed the Cyclops in the back so hard, he landed flat on his face. Before Torque could recover, the robotic hand grabbed him by one leg and hurled him straight up. "AHHHHH!" Torque rocketed into the gloom. The ceiling was too dark and too high up to see exactly what happened, but judging from the harsh metal clang, Leo guessed the Cyclops had hit one of the support girders. Torque never came down. Instead, yellow dust rained to the floor. Torque had disintegrated. Ma Gasket stared at Leo in shock. "My son _ You _ You _" As if on cue, Sump lumbered into the firelight with a case of salsa. "Ma, I got the extra-spicy-" He never finished his sentence. Leo spun the remote's toggle, and the second robotic arm whacked Sump in the chest. The salsa case exploded like a pinata and Sump flewbackward, right into the base of Leo's third machine. Sump may have been immune to getting hit with truck chasses, but he wasn't immune to robotic arms that could deliver ten thousand pounds of force. The third crane arm slammed himagainst the floor so hard, he exploded into dust like a broken flour sack. Two Cyclopes down. Leo was beginning to feel like Commander Tool Belt when Ma Gasket locked her eye on him. She grabbed the nearest crane arm and ripped it off its pedestal with a savage roar. "You busted my boys! Only I get to bust my boys!" Leo punched a button, and the two remaining arms swung into action. Ma Gasket caught the first one and tore it in half. The second arm smacked her in the head, but that only seemed to make her mad. She grabbed it by the clamps, ripped it free, and swung it like a baseball bat. It missed Piper and Jason by an inch. Then Ma Gasket let it go-spinning it toward Leo. He yelped and rolled to one side as it demolished the machine next to him. Leo started to realize that an angry Cyclops mother was not something you wanted to fight with a universal remote and a screwdriver. The future for Commander Tool Belt was not looking so hot. She stood about twenty feet from him now, next to the cooking fire. Her fists were clenched, her teeth bared. She looked ridiculous in her chain mail muumuu and her greasy pigtails-but given the murderous glare in her huge red eye and the fact that she was twelve feet tall, Leo wasn't laughing. "Any more tricks, demigod?" Ma Gasket demanded. Leo glanced up. The engine block suspended on the chain -if only he'd had time to rig it. If only he could get Ma Gasket to take one step forward. The chain itself _ that one link _Leo shouldn't have been able to see it, especially from so far down, but his senses told him there was metal fatigue. "Heck, yeah, I got tricks!" Leo raised his remote control. "Take one more step, and I'll destroy you with fire!" Ma Gasket laughed. "Would you? Cyclopes are immune to fire, you idiot. But if you wish to play with flames, let me help!" She scooped red-hot coals into her bare hands and flung them at Leo. They landed all around his feet. "You missed," he said incredulously. Then Ma Gasket grinned and picked up a barrel next to the truck. Leo just had time to read the stenciled word on the side-kerosene -before Ma Gasket threw it. The barrel split on the floor in front of him, spilling lighter fluid everywhere. Coals sparked. Leo closed his eyes, and Piper screamed, "No!" A firestorm erupted around him. When Leo opened his eyes he was bathed in flames swirling twenty feet into the air. Ma Gasket shrieked with delight, but Leo didn't offer the fire any good fuel. The kerosene burned off, dying down to small fiery patches on the floor. Piper gasped. "Leo?" Ma Gasket looked astonished. "You live?" Then she took that extra step forward, which put her right where Leo wanted. "What are you?" "The son of Hephaestus," Leo said. "And I warned you I'd destroy you with fire." He pointed one finger in the air and summoned all his will. He'd never tried to do anything so focused and intense-but he shot a bolt of white-hot flames at the chain suspending the engine block above the Cyclops's head-aiming for the link that looked weaker than rest. The flames died. Nothing happened. Ma Gasket laughed. "An impressive try, son of Hephaestus. It's been many centuries since I saw a fire user. You'll make a spicy appetizer! " The chain snapped-that single link heated beyond its tolerance point-and the engine block fell, deadly and silent. "I don't think so," Leo said. Ma Gasket didn't even have time to look up. Smash! No more Cyclops-just a pile of dust under a fiveton engine block. "Not immune to engines, huh?" Leo said. "Boo-yah!" Then he fell to his knees, his head buzzing. After a fewminutes he realized Piper was calling his name. "Leo! Are you all right? Can you move?" He stumbled to his feet. He'd never tried to summon such an intense fire before, and it had left him completely drained. It took him a long time to get Piper down from her chains. Then together they lowered Jason, who was still unconscious. Piper managed to trickle a little nectar into his mouth, and he groaned. The welt on his head started to shrink. His color came back a little. "Yeah, he's got a nice thick skull," Leo said. "I think he's gonna be fine." "Thank god," Piper sighed. Then she looked at Leo with something like fear. "How did you-the fire-have you always _ ?" Leo looked down. "Always," he said. "I'm a freaking menace. Sorry, I should've told you guys sooner but-" "Sorry?" Piper punched his arm. When he looked up, she was grinning. "That was amazing, Valdez! You saved our lives. What are you sorry about?" Leo blinked. He started to smile, but his sense of relief was ruined when he noticed something next to Piper's foot. Yellow dust-the powdered remains of one of the Cyclopes, maybe Torque-was shifting across the floor like an invisible wind was pushing it back together. "They're forming again," Leo said. "Look." Piper stepped away from the dust. "That's not possible. Annabeth told me monsters dissipate when they're killed. They go back to Tartarus and can't return for a long time." "Well, nobody told the dust that." Leo watched as it collected into a pile, then very slowly spread out, forming a shape with arms and legs. "Oh, god." Piper turned pale. "Boreas said something about this-the earth yielding up horrors. 'When monsters no longer stay in Tartarus, and souls are no longer confined to Hades.' How long do you think we have?" Leo thought about the face that had formed in the ground outside-the sleeping woman who was definitely a horror fromthe earth. "I don't know," he said. "But we need to get out of here." JASONDREAMEDHEWAS WRAPPEDin chains, hanging upside down like a hunk of meat. Everything hurt-his arms, his legs, his chest, his head. Especially his head. It felt like an overinflated water balloon. "If I'm dead," he murmured, "why does it hurt so much?" "You're not dead, my hero," said a woman's voice. "It is not your time. Come, speak with me." Jason's thoughts floated away from his body. He heard monsters yelling, his friends screaming, fiery explosions, but it all seemed to be happening on another plane of existence -getting farther and farther away. He found himself standing in an earthen cage. Tendrils of tree roots and stone whirled together, confining him. Outside the bars, he could see the floor of a dry reflecting pool, another earthen spire growing at the far end, and above them, the ruined red stones of a burned-out house. Next to him in the cage, a woman sat cross-legged in black robes, her head covered by a shroud. She pushed aside her veil, revealing a face that was proud and beautiful-but also hardened with suffering. "Hera," Jason said. "Welcome to my prison," said the goddess. "You will not die today, Jason. Your friends will see you through-for now." "For now?" he asked. Hera gestured at the tendrils of her cage. "There are worse trials to come. The very earth stirs against us." "You're a goddess," Jason said. "Why can't you just escape?" Hera smiled sadly. Her form began to glow, until her brilliance filled the cage with painful light. The air hummed with power, molecules splitting apart like a nuclear explosion. Jason suspected if he were actually there in the flesh, he would've been vaporized. The cage should've been blasted to rubble. The ground should've split and the ruined house should've been leveled. But when the glow died, the cage hadn't budged. Nothing outside the bars had changed. Only Hera looked different-a little more stooped and tired. "Some powers are even greater than the gods," she said. "I am not easily contained. I can be in many places at once. But when the greater part of my essence is caught, it is like a foot in a bear trap, you might say. I can't escape, and I amconcealed from the eyes of the other gods. Only you can find me, and I grow weaker by the day." "Then why did you come here?" Jason asked. "How were you caught?" The goddess sighed. "I could not stay idle. Your father Jupiter believes he can withdraw from the world, and thus lull our enemies back to sleep. He believes we Olympians have become too involved in the affairs of mortals, in the fates of our demigod children, especially since we agreed to claim them all after the war. He believes this is what has caused our enemies to stir. That is why he closed Olympus." "But you don't agree." "No," she said. "Often I do not understand my husband's moods or his decisions, but even for Zeus, this seemed paranoid. I cannot fathom why he was so insistent and so convinced. It was _ unlike him. As Hera, I might have been content to follow my lord's wishes. But I am also Juno." Her image flickered, and Jason saw armor under her simple black robes, a goatskin cloak-the symbol of a Roman warrior -across her bronze mantle. "Juno Moneta they once called me-Juno, the One Who Warns. I was guardian of the state, patron of Eternal Rome. I could not sit by while the descendants of my people were attacked. I sensed danger at this sacred spot. A voice-" She hesitated. "A voice told me I should come here. Gods do not have what you might call a conscience, nor do we have dreams; but the voice was like that-soft and persistent, warning me to come here. And so the same day Zeus closed Olympus, I slipped away without telling him my plans, so he could not stop me. And I came here to investigate." "It was a trap," Jason guessed. The goddess nodded. "Only too late did I realize howquickly the earth was stirring. I was even more foolish than Jupiter-a slave to my own impulses. This is exactly how it happened the first time. I was taken captive by the giants, and my imprisonment started a war. Now our enemies rise again. The gods can only defeat them with the help of the greatest living heroes.And the one whom the giants serve _she cannot be defeated at all-only kept asleep." "I don't understand." "You will soon," Hera said. The cage began to constrict, the tendrils spiraling tighter. Hera's form shivered like a candle flame in the breeze. Outside the cage, Jason could see shapes gathering at the edge of the pool-lumbering humanoids with hunched backs and bald heads. Unless Jason's eyes were tricking him-they had more than one set of arms. He heard wolves too, but not the wolves he'd seen with Lupa. He could tell from their howls this was a different pack-hungrier, more aggressive, out for blood. "Hurry, Jason," Hera said. "My keepers approach, and you begin to wake. I will not be strong enough to appear to you again, even in dreams." "Wait," he said. "Boreas told us you'd made a dangerous gamble. What did he mean?" Hera's eyes looked wild, and Jason wondered if she really had done something crazy. "An exchange," she said. "The only way to bring peace. The enemy counts on our divisions, and if we are divided, we will be destroyed. You are my peace offering, Jason-a bridge to overcome millennia of hatred." "What? I don't-" "I cannot tell you more," Hera said. "You have only lived this long because I have taken your memory. Find this place. Return to your starting point. Your sister will help." "Thalia?" The scene began to dissolve. "Good-bye, Jason. Beware Chicago. Your most dangerous mortal enemy waits there. If you are to die, it will be by her hand." "Who?" he demanded. But Hera's image faded, and Jason awoke. His eyes snapped open. "Cyclops!" "Whoa, sleepyhead." Piper sat behind him on the bronze dragon, holding his waist to keep him balanced. Leo sat in front, driving. They flew peacefully through the winter sky as if nothing had happened. "D-Detroit," Jason stammered. "Didn't we crash-land? I thought-" "It's okay," Leo said. "We got away, but you got a nasty concussion. How you feeling?" Jason's head throbbed. He remembered the factory, then walking down the catwalk, then a creature looming over him-a face with one eye, a massive fist-and everything went black. "How did you-the Cyclops-" "Leo ripped them apart," Piper said. "He was amazing. He can summon fire-" "It was nothing," Leo said quickly. Piper laughed. "Shut up, Valdez. I'm going to tell him. Get over it." And she did-how Leo single-handedly defeated the Cyclopes family; how they freed Jason, then noticed the Cyclopes starting to re-form; how Leo had replaced the dragon's wiring and gotten them back in the air just as they'd started to hear the Cyclopes roaring for vengeance inside the factory. Jason was impressed. Taking out three Cyclopes with nothing but a tool kit? Not bad. It didn't exactly scare him to hear how close he'd come to death, but it did make him feel horrible. He'd stepped right into an ambush and spent the whole fight knocked out while his friends fended for themselves. What kind of quest leader was he? When Piper told him about the other kid the Cyclopes claimed to have eaten, the one in the purple shirt who spoke Latin, Jason felt like his head was going to explode. A son of Mercury _ Jason felt like he should know that kid, but the name was missing from his mind. "I'm not alone, then," he said. "There are others like me." "Jason," Piper said, "you were never alone. You've got us." "I-I know _ but something Hera said. I was having a dream_" He told them what he'd seen, and what the goddess had said inside her cage. "An exchange?" Piper asked. "What does that mean?" Jason shook his head. "But Hera's gamble is me. Just by sending me to Camp Half-Blood, I have a feeling she broke some kind of rule, something that could blow up in a big way-" "Or save us," Piper said hopefully. "That bit about the sleeping enemy-that sounds like the lady Leo told us about." Leo cleared his throat. "About that _ she kind of appeared to me back in Detroit, in a pool of Porta-Potty sludge." Jason wasn't sure he'd heard that right. "Did you say _Porta-Potty?" Leo told them about the big face in the factory yard. "I don't know if she's completely unkillable," he said, "but she cannot be defeated by toilet seats. I can vouch for that. She wanted me to betray you guys, and I was like, 'Pfft, right, I'm gonna listen to a face in the potty sludge.'" "She's trying to divide us." Piper slipped her arms fromaround Jason's waist. He could sense her tension without even looking at her. "What's wrong?" he asked. "I just _ Why are they toying with us? Who is this lady, and how is she connected to Enceladus?" "Enceladus?" Jason didn't think he'd heard that name before. "I mean _" Piper's voice quavered. "That's one of the giants. Just one of the names I could remember." Jason got the feeling there was a lot more bothering her, but he decided he not to press her. She'd had a rough morning. Leo scratched his head. "Well, I dunno about Enchiladas-" "Enceladus," Piper corrected. "Whatever. But Old Potty Face mentioned another name. Porpoise Fear, or something?" "Porphyrion?" Piper asked. "He was the giant king, I think." Jason envisioned that dark spire in the old reflecting pool -growing larger as Hera got weaker. "I'm going to take wild guess," he said. "In the old stories, Porphyrion kidnapped Hera. That was the first shot in the war between the giants and the gods." "I think so," Piper agreed. "But those myths are really garbled and conflicted. It's almost like nobody wanted that story to survive. I just remember there was a war, and the giants were almost impossible to kill." "Heroes and gods had to work together," Jason said. "That's what Hera told me." "Kind of hard to do," Leo grumbled, "if the gods won't even talk to us." They flew west, and Jason became lost in his thoughts -all of them bad. He wasn't sure how much time passed before the dragon dove through a break in the clouds, and below them, glittering in the winter sun, was a city at the edge of a massive lake. A crescent of skyscrapers lined the shore. Behind them, stretching out to the western horizon, was a vast grid of snow-covered neighborhoods and roads. "Chicago," Jason said. He thought about what Hera had said in his dream. His worst mortal enemy would be waiting here. If he was going to die, it would be by her hand. "One problem down," Leo said. "We got here alive. Now, how do we find the storm spirits?" Jason saw a flash of movement below them. At first he thought it was a small plane, but it was too small, too dark and fast. The thing spiraled toward the skyscrapers, weaving and changing shape-and, just for a moment it became the smoky figure of a horse. "How about we follow that one," Jason suggested, "and see where it goes?" JASON WAS AFRAID THEY'D LOSE THEIR TARGET. The ventus moved like _ well, like the wind. "Speed up!" he urged. "Bro," Leo said, "if I get any closer, he'll spot us. Bronze dragon ain't exactly a stealth plane." "Slow down!" Piper yelped. The storm spirit dove into the grid of downtown streets. Festus tried to follow, but his wingspan was way too wide. His left wing clipped the edge of a building, slicing off a stone gargoyle before Leo pulled up. "Get above the buildings," Jason suggested. "We'll track him from there." "You want to drive this thing?" Leo grumbled, but he did what Jason asked. After a few minutes, Jason spotted the storm spirit again, zipping through the streets with no apparent purpose-blowing over pedestrians, ruffling flags, making cars swerve. over pedestrians, ruffling flags, making cars swerve. "Oh great," Piper said. "There're two." She was right. A second ventus blasted around the corner of the Renaissance Hotel and linked up with the first. They wove together in a chaotic dance, shooting to the top of a skyscraper, bending a radio tower, and diving back down toward the street. "Those guys do not need any more caffeine," Leo said. "I guess Chicago's a good place to hang out," Piper said. "Nobody's going to question a couple more evil winds." "More than a couple," Jason said. "Look." The dragon circled over a wide avenue next to a lake-side park. Storm spirits were converging-at least a dozen of them, whirling around a big public art installation. "Which one do you think is Dylan?" Leo asked. "I wanna throw something at him." But Jason focused on the art installation. The closer they got to it, the faster his heart beat. It was just a public fountain, but it was unpleasantly familiar. Two five-story monoliths rose from either end of a long granite reflecting pool. The monoliths seemed to be built of video screens, flashing the combined image of a giant face that spewed water into the pool. Maybe it was just a coincidence, but it looked like a hightech, super-size version of that ruined reflecting pool he'd seen in his dreams, with those two dark masses jutting from either end. As Jason watched, the image on the screens changed to a woman's face with her eyes closed. "Leo _" he said nervously. "I see her," Leo said. "I don't like her, but I see her." Then the screens went dark. The venti swirled together into a single funnel cloud and skittered across the fountain, kicking up a waterspout almost as high as the monoliths. They got to its center, popped off a drain cover, and disappeared underground. "Did they just go down a drain?" Piper asked. "How are we supposed to follow them?" "Maybe we shouldn't," Leo said. "That fountain thing is giving me seriously bad vibes. And aren't we supposed to, like, beware the earth?" Jason felt the same way, but they had to follow. It was their only way forward. They had to find Hera, and they now had only two days until the solstice. "Put us down in that park," he suggested. "We'll check it out on foot." Festus landed in an open area between the lake and the skyline. The signs said Grant Park, and Jason imagined it would've been a nice place in the summer; but now it was a field of ice, snow, and salted walkways. The dragon's hot metal feet hissed as they touched down. Festus flapped his wings unhappily and shot fire into the sky, but there was no one around to notice. The wind coming off the lake was bitter cold. Anyone with sense would be inside. Jason's eyes stung so badly, he could barely see. They dismounted, and Festus the dragon stomped his feet. One of his ruby eyes flickered, so it looked like he was blinking. "Is that normal?" Jason asked. Leo pulled a rubber mallet from his tool bag. He whacked the dragon's bad eye, and the light went back to normal. "Yes," Leo said. "Festus can't hang around here, though, in the middle of the park. They'll arrest him for loitering. Maybe if I had a dog whistle _" He rummaged in his tool belt, but came up with nothing. "Too specialized?" he guessed. "Okay, give me a safety whistle. They got that in lots of machine shops." This time, Leo pulled out a big plastic orange whistle. "Coach Hedge would be jealous! Okay, Festus, listen." Leo blew the whistle. The shrill sound probably rolled all the way across Lake Michigan. "You hear that, come find me, okay? Until then, you fly wherever you want. Just try not to barbecue any pedestrians." The dragon snorted-hopefully in agreement. Then he spread his wings and launched into the air. Piper took one step and winced. "Ah!" "Your ankle?" Jason felt bad he'd forgotten about her injury back in the Cyclops factory. "That nectar we gave you might be wearing off." "It's fine." She shivered, and Jason remembered his promise to get her a new snowboarding coat. He hoped he lived long enough to find her one. She took a few more steps with only a slight limp, but Jason could tell she was trying not to grimace. "Let's get out of the wind," he suggested. "Down a drain?" Piper shuddered. "Sounds cozy." They wrapped themselves up as best they could and headed toward the fountain. * * * According to the plaque, it was called Crown Fountain. All the water had emptied out except for a few patches that were starting to freeze. It didn't seem right to Jason that the fountain would have water in it in the winter anyway. Then again, those big monitors had flashed the face of their mysterious enemy Dirt Woman. Nothing about this place was right. They stepped to the center of the pool. No spirits tried to stop them. The giant monitor walls stayed dark. The drain hole was easily big enough for a person, and a maintenance ladder led down into the gloom. Jason went first. As he climbed, he braced himself for horrible sewer smells, but it wasn't that bad. The ladder dropped into a brickwork tunnel running north to south. The air was warm and dry, with only a trickle of water on the floor. Piper and Leo climbed down after him. "Are all sewers this nice?" Piper wondered. "No," Leo said. "Trust me." Jason frowned. "How do you know-" "Hey, man, I ran away six times. I've slept in some weird places, okay? Now, which way do we go?" Jason tilted his head, listening, then pointed south. "That way." "How can you be sure?" Piper asked. "There's a draft blowing south," Jason said. "Maybe the venti went with the flow." It wasn't much of a lead, but nobody offered anything better. Unfortunately, as soon as they started walking, Piper stumbled. Jason had to catch her. "Stupid ankle," she cursed. "Let's rest," Jason decided. "We could all use it. We've been going nonstop for over a day. Leo, can you pull any food from that tool belt besides breath mints?" "Thought you'd never ask. Chef Leo is on it!" Piper and Jason sat on a brick ledge while Leo shuffled through his pack. Jason was glad to rest. He was still tired and dizzy, and hungry, too. But mostly, he wasn't eager to face whatever lay ahead. He turned his gold coin in his fingers. If you are to die, Hera had warned, it will be by her hand. Whoever "her" was. After Khione, the Cyclops mother, and the weird sleeping lady, the last thing Jason needed was another psycho villainess in his life. "It wasn't your fault," Piper said. He looked at her blankly. "What?" "Getting jumped by the Cyclopes," she said. "It wasn't your fault." He looked down at the coin in his palm. "I was stupid. I left you alone and walked into a trap. I should've known_" He didn't finish. There were too many things he should have known-who he was, how to fight monsters, howCyclopes lured their victims by mimicking voices and hiding in shadows and a hundred other tricks. All that information was supposed to be in his head. He could feel the places it should be-like empty pockets. If Hera wanted him to succeed, why had she stolen the memories that could help him? She claimed his amnesia had kept him alive, but that made no sense. He was starting to understand why Annabeth had wanted to leave the goddess in her cage. "Hey." Piper nudged his arm. "Cut yourself some slack. Just because you're the son of Zeus doesn't mean you're a one-man army." A few feet away, Leo lit a small cooking fire. He hummed as he pulled supplies out of his pack and his tool belt. In the firelight, Piper's eyes seemed to dance. Jason had been studying them for days now, and he still couldn't decide what color they were. "I know this must suck for you," he said. "Not just the quest, I mean. The way I appeared on the bus, the Mist messing with your mind, and making you think Iwas _you know." She dropped her gaze. "Yeah, well. None of us asked for this. It's not your fault." She tugged at the little braids on each side of her head. Again, Jason thought how glad he was that she'd lost the Aphrodite blessing. With the makeup and the dress and the perfect hair, she'd looked about twenty-five, glamorous, and completely out of his league. He'd never thought of beauty as a form of power, but that's the way Piper had seemed-powerful. He liked regular Piper better-someone he could hang out with. But the weird thing was, he couldn't quite get that other image out of his head. It hadn't been an illusion. That side of Piper was there too. She just did her best to hide it. "Back in the factory," Jason said, "you were you going to say something about your dad." She traced her finger over the bricks, almost like she was writing out a scream she didn't want to vocalize. "Was I?" "Piper," he said, "he's in some kind of trouble, isn't it?" Over at the fire, Leo stirred some sizzling bell peppers and meat in a pan. "Yeah, baby! Almost there." Piper looked on the verge of tears. "Jason _ I can't talk about it." "We're your friends. Let us help." That seemed to make her feel worse. She took a shaky breath. "Iwish I could, but-" "And bingo!" Leo announced. He came over with three plates stacked on his arms like a waiter. Jason had no idea where he'd gotten all the food, or how he'd put it together so fast, but it looked amazing: pepper and beef tacos with chips and salsa. "Leo," Piper said in amazement. "How did you-?" "Chef Leo's Taco Garage is fixing you up!" he said proudly. "And by the way, it's tofu, not beef, beauty queen, so don't freak. Just dig in!" Jason wasn't sure about tofu, but the tacos tasted as good as they smelled. While they ate, Leo tried to lighten the mood and joke around. Jason was grateful Leo was with them. It made being with Piper a little less intense and uncomfortable. At the same time, he kind of wished he was alone with her; but he chided himself for feeling that way. After Piper ate, Jason encouraged her to get some sleep. Without another word, she curled up and put her head in his lap. In two seconds she was snoring. Jason looked up at Leo, who was obviously trying not to laugh. They sat in silence for a few minutes, drinking lemonade Leo had made from canteen water and powdered mix. "Good, huh?" Leo grinned. "You should start a stand," Jason said. "Make some serious coin." But as he stared at the embers of the fire, something began to bother him. "Leo _ about this fire stuff you can do _is it true?" Leo's smile faltered. "Yeah, well _" He opened his hand. A small ball of flame burst to life, dancing across his palm. "That is so cool," Jason said. "Why didn't you say anything?" Leo closed his hand and the fire went out. "Didn't want to look like a freak." "I have lightning and wind powers," Jason reminded him. "Piper can turn beautiful and charm people into giving her BMWs. You're no more a freak than we are. And, hey, maybe you can fly, too. Like jump off a building and yell, 'Flame on!'" Leo snorted. "If I did that, you would see a flaming kid falling to his death, and I would be yelling something a little stronger than 'Flame on!' Trust me, Hephaestus cabin doesn't see fire powers as cool. Nyssa told me they're super rare. When a demigod like me comes around, bad things happen. Really bad." "Maybe it's the other way around," Jason suggested. "Maybe people with special gifts show up when bad things are happening because that's when they're needed most." Leo cleared away the plates. "Maybe. But I'm telling you _it's not always a gift." Jason fell silent. "You're talking about your mom, aren't you? The night she died." Leo didn't answer. He didn't have to. The fact that he was quiet, not joking around-that told Jason enough. "Leo, her death wasn't your fault. Whatever happened that night-it wasn't because you could summon fire. This Dirt Woman, whoever she is, has been trying to ruin you for years, mess up your confidence, take away everything you care about. She's trying to make you feel like a failure. You're not. You're important." "That's what she said." Leo looked up, his eyes full of pain. "She said I was meant to do something important-something that would make or break that big prophecy about the seven demigods. That's what scares me. I don't know if I'm up to it." Jason wanted to tell him everything would be all right, but it would've sounded fake. Jason didn't know what would happen. They were demigods, which meant sometimes things didn't end okay. Sometimes you got eaten by the Cyclops. If you asked most kids, "Hey, you want to summon fire or lightning or magical makeup?" they'd think it sounded pretty cool. But those powers went along with hard stuff, like sitting in a sewer in the middle of winter, running from monsters, losing your memory, watching your friends almost get cooked, and having dreams that warned you of your own death. Leo poked at the remnants of his fire, turning over red-hot coals with his bare hand. "You ever wonder about the other four demigods? I mean _ if we're three of the ones from the Great demigods? I mean _ if were three of the ones from the Great Prophecy, who are the others? Where are they?" Jason had thought about it, all right, but he tried to push it out of his mind. He had a horrible suspicion that he would be expected to lead those other demigods, and he was afraid he would fail. You'll tear each other apart, Boreas had promised. Jason had been trained never to show fear. He was sure of that from his dream with the wolves. He was supposed to act confident, even if he didn't feel it. But Leo and Piper were depending on him, and he was terrified of failing them. If he had to lead a group of six-six who might not get along-that would be even worse. "I don't know," he said at last. "I guess the other four will show up when the time is right. Who knows? Maybe they're on some other quest right now." Leo grunted. "I bet their sewer is nicer than ours." The draft picked up, blowing toward the south end of the tunnel. "Get some rest, Leo," Jason said. "I'll take first watch." It was hard to measure time, but Jason figured his friends slept about four hours. Jason didn't mind. Now that he was resting, he didn't really feel the need for more sleep. He'd been conked out long enough on the dragon. Plus, he needed time to think about the quest, his sister Thalia, and Hera's warnings. He also didn't mind Piper's using him for a pillow. She had a cute way of breathing when she slept-inhaling through the nose, exhaling with a little puff through the mouth. He was almost disappointed when she woke up. Finally they broke camp and started down the tunnel. It twisted and turned and seemed to go on forever. Jason wasn't sure what to expect at the end-a dungeon, a mad scientist's lab, or maybe a sewer reservoir where all PortaPotty sludge ends up, forming an evil toilet face large enough to swallow the world. Instead, they found polished steel elevator doors, each one engraved with a cursive letter M. Next to the elevator was a directory, like for a department store. "M for Macy's?" Piper guessed. "I think they have one in downtown Chicago." "Or Monocle Motors still?" Leo said. "Guys, read the directory. It's messed up." Parking, Kennels, Main Entrance: Sewer Level Furnishings and Cafe M: 1 Women's Fashion and MagicalAppliances: 2 Men's Wear and Weaponry: 3 Cosmetics, Potions, Poisons & Sundries: 4 "Kennels for what?" Piper said. "And what kind of department store has its entrance in a sewer?" "Or sells poisons," Leo said. "Man, what does 'sundries' even mean? Is that like underwear?" Jason took a deep breath. "When in doubt, start at the top. " * * * The doors slid open on the fourth floor, and the scent of perfume wafted into the elevator. Jason stepped out first, sword ready. "Guys," he said. "You've got to see this." Piper joined him and caught her breath. "This is not Macy's." The department store looked like the inside of a kaleidoscope. The entire ceiling was a stained glass mosaic with astrological signs around a giant sun. The daylight streaming through it washed everything in a thousand different colors. The upper floors made a ring of balconies around a huge central atrium, so they could see all the way down to the ground floor. Gold railings glittered so brightly, they were hard to look at. Aside from the stained glass ceiling and the elevator, Jason couldn't see any other windows or doors, but two sets of glass escalators ran between the levels. The carpeting was a riot of oriental patterns and colors, and the racks of merchandise were just as bizarre. There was too much to take it at once, but Jason saw normal stuff like shirt racks and shoe trees mixed in with armored manikins, beds of nails, and fur coats that seemed to be moving. Leo stepped to the railing and looked down. "Check it out." In the middle of the atrium a fountain sprayed water twenty feet into the air, changing color from red to yellow to blue. The pool glittered with gold coins, and on either side of the fountain stood a gilded cage-like an oversize canary cage. Inside one, a miniature hurricane swirled, and lightning flashed. Somebody had imprisoned the storm spirits, and the cage shuddered as they tried to get out. In the other, frozen like a statue, was a short, buff satyr, holding a tree-branch club. "Coach Hedge!" Piper said. "We've got to get down there. " A voice said, "May I help you find something?" All three of them jumped back. A woman had just appeared in front of them. She wore an elegant black dress with diamond jewelry, and she looked like a retired fashion model-maybe fifty years old, though it was hard for Jason to judge. Her long dark hair swept over one shoulder, and her face was gorgeous in that surreal supermodel way-thin and haughty and cold, not quite human. With their long red-painted nails, her fingers looked more like talons. She smiled. "I'm so happy to see new customers. Howmay I help you?" Leo glanced at Jason like, All yours. "Um," Jason started, "is this your store?" The woman nodded. "I found it abandoned, you know. I understand so many stores are, these days. I decided it would make the perfect place. I love collecting tasteful objects, helping people, and offering quality goods at a reasonable price. So this seemed a good _ how do you say _ first acquisition in this country." She spoke with a pleasing accent, but Jason couldn't guess where from. Clearly she wasn't hostile, though. Jason started to relax. Her voice was rich and exotic. Jason wanted to hear more. "So you're new to America?" he asked. "I am _ new," the woman agreed. "I am the Princess of Colchis. My friends call me Your Highness. Now, what are you looking for?" Jason had heard of rich foreigners buying American department stores. Of course most of the time they didn't sell poisons, living fur coats, storm spirits, or satyrs, but still-with a nice voice like that, the Princess of Colchis couldn't be all bad. Piper poked him in the ribs. "Jason _" "Um, right. Actually, Your Highness _" He pointed to the gilded cage on the first floor. "That's our friend down there, Gleeson Hedge. The satyr. Could we _ have him back, please?" "Of course!" the princess agreed immediately. "I would love to show you my inventory. First, may I know your names?" Jason hesitated. It seemed like a bad idea to give out their names. A memory tugged at the back of his mind -something Hera had warned him about, but it seemed fuzzy. On the other hand, Her Highness was on the verge of cooperating. If they could get what they wanted without a fight, that would be better. Besides, this lady didn't seem like an enemy. Piper started to say, "Jason, Iwouldn't-" "This is Piper," he said. "This is Leo. I'm Jason." The princess fixed her eyes on him and, just for a moment, her face literally glowed, blazing with so much anger, Jason could see her skull beneath her skin. Jason's mind was getting blurrier, but he knew something didn't seem right. Then the moment passed, and Her Highness looked like a normal elegant woman again, with a cordial smile and a soothing voice. "Jason. What an interesting name," she said, her eyes as cold as the Chicago wind. "I think we'll have to make a special deal for you. Come, children. Let's go shopping." PIPERWANTEDTORUNFORTHEELEVATOR. Her second choice: attack the weird princess now, because she was sure a fight was coming. The way the lady's face glowed when she'd heard Jason's name had been bad enough. Now Her Highness was smiling like nothing had happened, and Jason and Leo didn't seem to think anything was wrong. The princess gestured toward the cosmetics counter. "Shall we start with the potions?" "Cool," Jason said. "Guys," Piper interrupted, "we're here to get the stormspirits and Coach Hedge. If this-princess-is really our friend-" "Oh, I'm better than a friend, my dear," Her Highness said. "I'm a saleswoman." Her diamonds sparkled, and her eyes glittered like a snake's-cold and dark. "Don't worry. We'll work our way down to the first floor, eh?" Leo nodded eagerly. "Sure, yeah! That sounds okay. Right, Piper?" Piper did her best to stare daggers at him: No, it is not okay! "Of course it's okay." Her Highness put her hands on Leo's and Jason's shoulders and steered them toward the cosmetics. "Come along, boys." Piper didn't have much choice except to follow. She hated department stores-mostly because she'd gotten caught stealing from several of them. Well, not exactly caught, and not exactly stealing. She'd talked salesmen into giving her computers, new boots, a gold ring, once even a lawn mower, though she had no idea why she wanted one. She never kept the stuff. She just did it to get her dad's attention. Usually she talked her neighborhood UPS guy into taking the stuff back. But of course the salesmen she duped always came to their senses and called the police, who eventually tracked her down. Anyway, she wasn't thrilled to be back in a department store-especially one run by a crazy princess who glowed in the dark. "And here," the princess said, "is the finest assortment of magical mixtures anywhere." The counter was crammed with bubbling beakers and smoking vials on tripods. Lining the display shelves were crystal flasks-some shaped like swans or honey bear dispensers. The liquids inside were every color, from glowing white to polka-dotted. And the smells-ugh! Some were pleasant, like fresh-baked cookies or roses, but they were mixed with the scents of burning tires, skunk spray, and gymlockers. The princess pointed to a bloodred vial-a simple test tube with a cork stopper. "This one will heal any disease." "Even cancer?" Leo asked. "Leprosy? Hangnails?" "Any disease, sweet boy. And this vial"-she pointed to a swan-shaped container with blue liquid inside-"will kill you very painfully." "Awesome," Jason said. His voice sounded dazed and sleepy. "Jason," Piper said. "We've got a job to do. Remember?" She tried to put power into her words, to snap him out of his trance with charmspeak, but her voice sounded shaky even to her. This princess woman scared her too much, made her confidence crumble, just the way she'd felt back in the Aphrodite cabin with Drew. "Job to do," Jason muttered. "Sure. But shopping first, okay?" The princess beamed at him. "Then we have potions for resisting fire-" "Got that covered," Leo said. "Indeed?" The princess studied Leo's face more closely. "You don't appear to be wearing my trademark sunscreen _but no matter. We also have potions that cause blindness, insanity, sleep, or-" "Wait." Piper was still staring at the red vial. "Could that potion cure lost memory?" The princess narrowed her eyes. "Possibly. Yes. Quite possibly. Why, my dear? Have you forgotten something important?" Piper tried to keep her expression neutral, but if that vial could cure Jason's memory _ Do Ireally want that? she wondered. If Jason found out who he was, he might not even be her friend. Hera had taken away his memories for a reason. She'd told him it was the only way he'd survive at Camp Half-Blood. What if Jason found out that he was their enemy, or something? He might come out of his amnesia and decide he hated Piper. He might have a girlfriend wherever he came from. It doesn't matter, she decided, which kind of surprised her. Jason always looked so anguished when he tried to remember things. Piper hated seeing him that way. She wanted to help him because she cared about him, even if that meant losing him. And maybe it would make this trip through Her Craziness's department store worthwhile. "How much?" Piper asked. The princess got a faraway look in her eyes. "Well, now _The price is always tricky. I love helping people. Honestly, I do. And I always keep my bargains, but sometimes people try to cheat me." Her gaze drifted to Jason. "Once, for instance, Imet a handsome young man who wanted a treasure from my father's kingdom. We made a bargain, and I promised to help him steal it." "From your own dad?" Jason still looked half in a trance, but the idea seemed to bother him. "Oh, don't worry," the princess said. "I demanded a high price. The young man had to take me away with him. He was quite good-looking, dashing, strong _" She looked at Piper. "I'm sure, my dear, you understand how one might be attracted to such a hero, and want to help him." Piper tried to control her emotions, but she probably blushed. She got the creepiest feeling the princess could read her thoughts. She also found the princess's story disturbingly familiar. Pieces of old myths she'd read with her dad started coming together, but this woman couldn't be the one she was thinking of. "At any rate," Her Highness continued, "my hero had to do many impossible tasks, and I'm not bragging when I say he couldn't have done them without me. I betrayed my own family to win the hero his prize. And still he cheated me of my payment." "Cheated?" Jason frowned, as if trying to remember something important. "That's messed up," Leo said. Her Highness patted his cheek affectionately. "I'm sure you don't need to worry, Leo. You seem honest. You would always pay a fair price, wouldn't you?" Leo nodded. "What were we buying again? I'll take two." Piper broke in: "So, the vial, Your Highness-how much?" The princess assessed Piper's clothes, her face, her posture, as if putting a price tag on one slightly used demigod. "Would you give anything for it, my dear?" the princess asked. "I sense that you would." The words washed over Piper as powerfully as a good surfing wave. The force of the suggestion nearly lifted her offher feet. She wanted to pay any price. She wanted to say yes. Then her stomach twisted. Piper realized she was being charmspoken. She'd sensed something like it before, when Drew spoke at the campfire, but this was a thousand times more potent. No wonder her friends were dazed. Was this was what people felt when Piper used charmspeak? A feeling of guilt settled over her. She summoned all her willpower. "No, I won't pay any price. But a fair price, maybe. After that, we need to leave. Right, guys?" Just for a moment, her words seemed to have some effect. The boys looked confused. "Leave?" Jason said. "You mean _ after shopping?" Leo asked. Piper wanted to scream, but the princess tilted her head, examining Piper with newfound respect. "Impressive," the princess said. "Not many people could resist my suggestions. Are you a child of Aphrodite, my dear? Ah, yes-I should have seen it. No matter. Perhaps we should shop a while longer before you decide what to buy, eh?" "But the vial-" "Now, boys." She turned to Jason and Leo. Her voice was so much more powerful than Piper's, so full of confidence, Piper didn't stand a chance. "Would you like to see more?" "Sure," Jason said. "Okay," Leo said. "Excellent," the princess said. "You'll need all the help you can get if you're to make it to the BayArea." Piper's hand moved to her dagger. She thought about her dream of the mountaintop-the scene Enceladus had shown her, a place she knew, where she was supposed to betray her friends in two days. "The BayArea?" Piper said. "Why the BayArea?" The princess smiled. "Well, that's where they'll die, isn't it? " Then she led them toward the escalators, Jason and Leo still looking excited to shop. PIPER CORNERED THE PRINCESS as Jason and Leo went off to check out the living fur coats. "You want them shopping for their deaths?" Piper demanded. "Mmm." The princess blew dust off a display case of swords. "I'm a seer, my dear. I know your little secret. But we don't want to dwell on that, do we? The boys are having such fun." Leo laughed as he tried on a hat that seemed to be made from enchanted raccoon fur. Its ringed tail twitched, and its little legs wiggled frantically as Leo walked. Jason was ogling the men's sportswear. Boys interested in shopping for clothes? A definite sign they were under an evil spell. Piper glared at the princess. "Who are you?" "I told you, my dear. I'm the Princess of Colchis." "Where's Colchis?" The princess's expression turned a little sad. "Where was Colchis, you mean. My father ruled the far shores of the Black Sea, as far to the east as a Greek ship could sail in those days. But Colchis is no more-lost eons ago." "Eons?" Piper asked. The princess looked no more than fifty, but a bad feeling started settling over Piper-something King Boreas had mentioned back in Quebec. "How old are you?" The princess laughed. "A lady should avoid asking or answering that question. Let's just say the, ah, immigration process to enter your country took quite a while. My patron finally brought me through. She made all this possible." The princess swept her hand around the department store. Piper's mouth tasted like metal. "Your patron _" "Oh, yes. She doesn't bring just anyone through, mind you -only those who have special talents, such as me. And really, she insists on so little-a store entrance that must be underground so she can, ah, monitor my clientele; and a favor now and then. In exchange for a new life? Really, it was the best bargain I'd made in centuries." Run, Piper thought. We have to get out of here. But before she could even turn her thoughts into words, Jason called, "Hey, check it out!" From a rack labeled distressed clothing, he held up a purple T-shirt like the one he'd worn on the school field trip -except this shirt looked as if it had been clawed by tigers. Jason frowned. "Why does this look so familiar?" "Jason, it's like yours," Piper said. "Now we really have to leave." But she wasn't sure he could even hear her anymore through the princess's enchantment. "Nonsense," the princess said. "The boys aren't done, are they? And yes, my dear. Those shirts are very popular -tradeins from previous customers. It suits you." Leo picked up an orange Camp Half-Blood tee with a hole through the middle, as if it had been hit by a javelin. Next to that was a dented bronze breastplate pitted with corrosion-acid, maybe?-and a Roman toga slashed to pieces and stained with something that looked disturbingly like dried blood. "Your Highness," Piper said, trying to control her nerves. "Why don't you tell the boys how you betrayed your family? I'msure they'd like to hear that story." Her words didn't have any effect on the princess, but the boys turned, suddenly interested. "More story?" Leo asked. "I like more story!" Jason agreed. The princess flashed Piper an irritated look. "Oh, one will do strange things for love, Piper. You should know that. I fell for that young hero, in fact, because your mother Aphrodite had me under a spell. If it wasn't for her-but I can't hold a grudge against a goddess, can I?" The princess's tone made her meaning clear: I can take it out on you. "But that hero took you with him when he fled Colchis," Piper remembered. "Didn't he, Your Highness? He married you just as he promised." The look in the princess's eyes made Piper want to apologize, but she didn't back down. "At first," Her Highness admitted, "it seemed he would keep his word. But even after I helped him steal my father's treasure, he still needed my help. As we fled, my brother's fleet came after us. His warships overtook us. He would have destroyed us, but I convinced my brother to come aboard our ship first and talk under a flag of truce. He trusted me." "And you killed your own brother," Piper said, the horrible story all coming back to her, along with a name-an infamous name that began with the letter M. "What?" Jason stirred. For a moment he looked almost like himself. "Killed your own-" "No," the princess snapped. "Those stories are lies. It was my new husband and his men who killed my brother, though they couldn't have done it without my deception. They threw his body into the sea, and the pursuing fleet had to stop and search for it so they could give my brother a proper burial. This gave us time to get away. All this, I did for my husband. And he forgot our bargain. He betrayed me in the end." Jason still looked uncomfortable. "What did he do?" The princess held the sliced-up toga against Jason's chest, as if measuring him for an assassination. "Don't you know the story, my boy? You of all people should. You were named for him." "Jason," Piper said. "The original Jason. But then you're -you should be dead!" The princess smiled. "As I said, a new life in a newcountry. Certainly I made mistakes. I turned my back on my own people. I was called a traitor, a thief, a liar, a murderess. But I acted out of love." She turned to the boys and gave thema pitiful look, batting her eyelashes. Piper could feel the sorcery washing over them, taking control more firmly than ever. "Wouldn't you do the same for someone you loved, my dears?" "Oh, sure," Jason said. "Okay," Leo said. "Guys!" Piper ground her teeth in frustration. "Don't you see who she is? Don't you-" "Let's continue, shall we?" the princess said breezily. "I believe you wanted to talk about a price for the storm spirits -and your satyr." Leo got distracted on the second floor with the appliances. "No way," he said. "Is that an armored forge?" Before Piper could stop him, he hopped off the escalator and ran over to a big oval oven that looked like a barbecue on steroids. When they caught up with him, the princess said, "You have good taste. This is the H-2000, designed by Hephaestus himself. Hot enough to melt Celestial bronze or Imperial gold." Jason flinched as if he recognized that term. "Imperial gold?" The princess nodded. "Yes, my dear. Like that weapon so cleverly concealed in your pocket. To be properly forged, Imperial gold had to be consecrated in the Temple of Jupiter on Capitoline Hill in Rome. Quite a powerful and rare metal, but like the Roman emperors, quite volatile. Be sure never to break that blade_" She smiled pleasantly. "Rome was after my time, of course, but I do hear stories. And now over here -this golden throne is one of my finest luxury items. Hephaestus made it as a punishment for his mother, Hera. Sit in it and you'll be immediately trapped." Leo apparently took this as an order. He began walking toward it in a trance. "Leo, don't!" Piper warned. He blinked. "How much for both?" "Oh, the seat I could let you have for five great deeds. The forge, seven years of servitude. And for only a bit of your strength-" She led Leo into the appliance section, giving himprices on various items. Piper didn't want to leave him alone with her, but she had to try reasoning with Jason. She pulled him aside and slapped him across the face. "Ow," he muttered sleepily. "What was that for?" "Snap out of it!" Piper hissed. "What do you mean?" "She's charmspeaking you. Can't you feel it?" He knit his eyebrows. "She seems okay." "She's not okay! She shouldn't even be alive! She was married to Jason-the other Jason-three thousand years ago. Remember what Boreas said-something about the souls no longer being confined to Hades? It's not just monsters who can't stay dead. She's come back from the Underworld!" Jason shook his head uneasily. "She's not a ghost." "No, she's worse! She's-" "Children." The princess was back with Leo in tow. "If you please, we will now see what you came for. That is what you want, yes?" Piper had to choke back a scream. She was tempted to pull out her dagger and take on this witch herself, but she didn't like her chances-not in the middle of Her Highness's department store while her friends were under a spell. Piper couldn't even be sure they'd take her side in a fight. She had to figure out a better plan. They took the escalator down to the base of the fountain. For the first time, Piper noticed two large bronze sundials -each about the size of a trampoline-inlaid on the marble tile floor to the north and south of the fountain. The gilded oversize canary cages stood to the east and west, and the farthest one held the storm spirits. They were so densely packed, spinning around like a super-concentrated tornado, that Piper couldn't tell how many there were-dozens, at least. "Hey," Leo said, "Coach Hedge looks okay!" They ran to the nearest canary cage. The old satyr seemed to have been petrified at the moment he was sucked into the sky above the Grand Canyon. He was frozen midshout, his club raised over his head like he was ordering the gym class to drop and give him fifty. His curly hair stuck up at odd angles. If Piper just concentrated on certain details-the bright orange polo shirt, the wispy goatee, the whistle around his neck-she could imagine Coach Hedge as his good old annoying self. But it was hard to ignore the stubby horns on his head, and the fact that he had furry goat legs and hooves instead of workout pants and Nikes. "Yes," the princess said. "I always keep my wares in good condition. We can certainly barter for the storm spirits and the satyr.A package deal. If we come to terms, I'll even throw in the vial of healing potion, and you can go in peace." She gave Piper a shrewd look. "That's better than starting unpleasantness, isn't it, dear?" Don't trust her, warned a voice in her head. If Piper was right about this lady's identity, nobody would be leaving in peace. A fair deal wasn't possible. It was all a trick. But her friends were looking at her, nodding urgently and mouthing, Say yes! Piper needed more to time to think. "We can negotiate," she said. "Totally!" Leo agreed. "Name your price." "Leo!" Piper snapped. The princess chuckled. "Name my price? Perhaps not the best haggling strategy, my boy, but at least you know a thing's value. Freedom is very valuable indeed. You would ask me to release this satyr, who attacked my storm winds-" "Who attacked us," Piper interjected. Her Highness shrugged. "As I said, my patron asks me for small favors from time to time. Sending the storm spirits to abduct you-that was one. I assure you it was nothing personal. And no harm done, as you came here, in the end, of your own free will! At any rate, you want the satyr freed, and you want my storm spirits-who are very valuable servants, by the way-so you can hand them over to that tyrant Aeolus. Doesn't seem quite fair, does it? The price will be high." Piper could see that her friends were ready to offer anything, promise anything. Before they could speak, she played her last card. "You're Medea," she said. "You helped the original Jason steal the Golden Fleece. You're one of the most evil villains in Greek mythology. Jason, Leo-don't trust her." Piper put all the intensity she could gather into those words. She was utterly sincere, and it seemed to have some effect. Jason stepped away from the sorceress. Leo scratched his head and looked around like he was coming out of a dream. "What are we doing, again?" "Boys!" The princess spread her hands in a welcoming gesture. Her diamond jewelry glittered, and her painted fingers curled like blood-tipped claws. "It's true, I'm Medea. But I'm so misunderstood. Oh, Piper, my dear, you don't know what it was like for women in the old days. We had no power, no leverage. Often we couldn't even choose our own husbands. But I was different. I chose my own destiny by becoming a sorceress. Is that so wrong? I made a pact with Jason: my help to win the fleece, in exchange for his love. A fair deal. He became a famous hero! Without me, he would've died unknown on the shores of Colchis." Jason-Piper's Jason-scowled. "Then _ you really did die three thousand years ago? You came back from the Underworld?" "Death no longer holds me, young hero," Medea said. "Thanks to my patron, I am flesh and blood again." "You _ re-formed?" Leo blinked. "Like a monster?" Medea spread her fingers, and steam hissed from her nails, like water splashed on hot iron. "You have no idea what's happening, do you, my dears? It is so much worse than a stirring of monsters from Tartarus. My patron knows that giants and monsters are not her greatest servants. I am mortal. I learn from my mistakes. And now that I have returned to the living, I will not be cheated again. Now, here is my price for what you ask." "Guys," Piper said. "The original Jason left Medea because she was crazy and bloodthirsty." "Lies!" Medea said. "On the way back from Colchis, Jason's ship landed at another kingdom, and Jason agreed to dump Medea and marry the king's daughter." "After I bore him two children!" Medea said. "Still he broke his promise! I ask you, was that right?" Jason and Leo dutifully shook their heads, but Piper wasn't through. "It may not have been right," she said, "but neither was Medea's revenge. She murdered her own children to get back at Jason. She poisoned his new wife and fled the kingdom." Medea snarled. "An invention to ruin my reputation! The people of the Corinth-that unruly mob-killed my children and drove me out. Jason did nothing to protect me. He robbed me of everything. So yes, I sneaked back into the palace and poisoned his lovely new bride. It was only fair-a suitable price." "You're insane," Piper said. "I am the victim!" Medea wailed. "I died with my dreams shattered, but no longer. I know now not to trust heroes. When they come asking for treasures, they will pay a heavy price. Especially when the one asking has the name of Jason!" The fountain turned bright red. Piper drew her dagger, but her hand was shaking almost too badly to hold it. "Jason, Leo -it's time to go. Now." "Before you've closed the deal?" Medea asked. "What of your quest, boys? And my price is so easy. Did you know this fountain is magic? If a dead man were to be thrown into it, even if he was chopped to pieces, he would pop back out fully formed-stronger and more powerful than ever." "Seriously?" Leo asked. "Leo, she's lying," Piper said. "She did that trick with somebody before-a king, I think. She convinced his daughters to cut him to pieces so he could come out of the water young and healthy again, but it just killed him!" "Ridiculous," Medea said, and Piper could hear the power charged in every syllable. "Leo, Jason-my price is so simple. Why don't you two fight? If you get injured, or even killed, no problem. We'll just throw you into the fountain and you'll be better than ever. You do want to fight, don't you? You resent each other!" "Guys, no!" Piper said. But they were already glaring at each other, as if it was just dawning on them how they really felt. Piper had never felt more helpless. Now she understood what real sorcery looked like. She'd always thought magic meant wands and fireballs, but this was worse. Medea didn't just rely on poisons and potions. Her most potent weapon was her voice. Leo scowled. "Jason's always the star. He always gets the attention and takes me for granted." "You're annoying, Leo," Jason said. "You never take anything seriously. You can't even fix a dragon." "Stop!" Piper pleaded, but both drew weapons-Jason his gold sword, and Leo a hammer from his tool belt. "Let them go, Piper," Medea urged. "I'm doing you a favor. Let it happen now, and it will make your choice so much easier. Enceladus will be pleased. You could have your father back today!" Medea's charmspeak didn't work on her, but the sorceress still had a persuasive voice. Her father back today? Despite her best intentions, Piper wanted that. She wanted her father back so much, it hurt. "You work for Enceladus," she said. Medea laughed. "Serve a giant? No. But we all serve the same greater cause-a patron you cannot begin to challenge. Walk away, child of Aphrodite. This does not have to be your death, too. Save yourself, and your father can go free." Leo and Jason were still facing off, ready to fight, but they looked unsteady and confused-waiting for another order. Part of them had to be resisting, Piper hoped. This went completely against their nature. "Listen to me, girl." Medea plucked a diamond off her bracelet and threw it into a spray of water from the fountain. As it passed through the multicolored light, Medea said, "O Iris, goddess of the rainbow, show me the office of Tristan McLean." The mist shimmered, and Piper saw her father's study. Sitting behind his desk, talking on the phone, was her dad's assistant, Jane, in her dark business suit, her hair swirled in a tight bun. "Hello, Jane," Medea said. Jane hung up the phone calmly. "How can I help you, ma'am? Hello, Piper." "You-" Piper was so angry she could hardly talk. "Yes, child," Medea said. "Your father's assistant. Quite easy to manipulate. An organized mind for a mortal, but incredibly weak." "Thank you, ma'am," Jane said. "Don't mention it," Medea said. "I just wanted to congratulate you, Jane. Getting Mr. McLean to leave town so suddenly, take his jet to Oakland without alerting the press or the police-well done! No one seems to know where he's gone. And telling him his daughter's life was on the line-that was a nice touch to get his cooperation." "Yes," Jane agreed in a bland tone, as if she were sleepwalking. "He was quite cooperative when he believed Piper was in danger." Piper looked down at her dagger. The blade trembled in her hand. She couldn't use it for a weapon any better than Helen of Troy could, but it was still a looking glass, and what she saw in it was a scared girl with no chance of winning. "I may have new orders for you, Jane," Medea said. "If the girl cooperates, it may be time for Mr. McLean to come home. Would you arrange a suitable cover story for his absence, just in case? And I imagine the poor man will need some time in a psychiatric hospital." "Yes, ma'am. Iwill stand by." The image faded, and Medea turned to Piper. "There, you see?" "You lured my dad into a trap," Piper said. "You helped the giant-" "Oh, please, dear. You'll work yourself into a fit! I've been preparing for this war for years, even before I was brought back to life. I'm a seer, as I said. I can tell the future as well as your little oracle. Years ago, still suffering in the Fields of Punishment, I had a vision of the seven in your so-called Great Prophecy. I saw your friend Leo here, and saw that he would be an important enemy someday. I stirred the consciousness of my patron, gave her this information, and she managed to wake just a little-just enough to visit him." "Leo's mother," Piper said. "Leo, listen to this! She helped get your mother killed!" "Uh-huh," Leo mumbled, in a daze. He frowned at his hammer. "So _ I just attack Jason? That's okay?" "Perfectly safe," Medea promised. "And Jason, strike himhard. Show me you are worthy of your namesake." "No!" Piper ordered. She knew it was her last chance. "Jason, Leo-she's tricking you. Put down your weapons." The sorceress rolled her eyes. "Please, girl. You're no match for me. I trained with my aunt, the immortal Circe. I can drive men mad or heal them with my voice. What hope do these puny young heroes have against me? Now, boys, kill each other!" "Jason, Leo, listen to me." Piper put all of her emotion into her voice. For years she'd been trying to control herself and not show weakness, but now she poured everything into her words -her fear, her desperation, her anger. She knew she might be signing her dad's death warrant, but she cared too much about her friends to let them hurt each other. "Medea is charming you. It's part of her magic. You are best friends. Don't fight each other. Fight her!" They hesitated, and Piper could feel the spell shatter. Jason blinked. "Leo, was I just about to stab you?" "Something about my mother _ ?" Leo frowned, then turned toward Medea. "You _ you're working for Dirt Woman. You sent her to the machine shop." He lifted his arm. "Lady, I got a three-pound hammer with your name on it." "Bah!" Medea sneered. "I'll simply collect payment another way." She pressed one of the mosaic tiles on the floor, and the building rumbled. Jason swung his sword at Medea, but she dissolved into smoke and reappeared at the base of the escalator. "You're slow, hero!" She laughed. "Take your frustration out on my pets!" Before Jason could go after her, the giant bronze sundials at either end of the fountain swung open. Two snarling gold beasts-flesh-and-blood winged dragons-crawled out fromthe pits below. Each was the size of a camper van, maybe not large compared to Festus, but large enough. "So that's what's in the kennels," Leo said meekly. The dragons spread their wings and hissed. Piper could feel the heat coming off their glittering skin. One turned his angry orange eyes on her. "Don't look them in the eye!" Jason warned. "They'll paralyze you." "Indeed!" Medea was leisurely riding the escalator up, leaning against the handrail as she watched the fun. "These two dears have been with me a long time-sun dragons, you know, gifts from my grandfather Helios. They pulled my chariot when I left Corinth, and now they will be your destruction. Ta-ta!" The dragons lunged. Leo and Jason charged to intercept. Piper was amazed how fearlessly the boys attacked-working like a team who had trained together for years. Medea was almost to the second floor, where she'd be able to choose from a wide assortment of deadly appliances. "Oh, no, you don't," Piper growled, and took off after her. When Medea spotted Piper, she started climbing in earnest. She was quick for a three-thousand-year-old lady. Piper climbed at top speed, taking the steps three at a time, and still she couldn't catch her. Medea didn't stop at floor two. She hopped the next escalator and continued to ascend. The potions, Piper thought. Of course that's what she would go for. She was famous for potions. Down below, Piper heard the battle raging. Leo was blowing his safety whistle, and Jason was yelling to keep the dragons' attention. Piper didn't dare look-not while she was running with a dagger in her hand. She could just see herself tripping and stabbing herself in the nose. That would be super heroic. She grabbed a shield from an armored manikin on floor three and continued to climb. She imagined Coach Hedge yelling in her mind, just like back in gym class at Wilderness School: Move it, McLean! You call that escalator-climbing? She reached the top floor, breathing hard, but she was too late. Medea had reached the potions counter. The sorceress grabbed a swan-shaped vial-the blue one that caused painful death-and Piper did the only thing that came to mind. She threw her shield. Medea turned triumphantly just in time to get hit in the chest by a fifty-pound metal Frisbee. She stumbled backward, crashing over the counter, breaking vials and knocking down shelves. When the sorceress stood from the wreckage, her dress was stained a dozen different colors. Many of the stains were smoldering and glowing. "Fool!" Medea wailed. "Do you have any idea what so many potions will do when mixed?" "Kill you?" Piper said hopefully. The carpet began to steam around Medea's feet. She coughed, and her face contorted in pain-or was she faking? Below, Leo called, "Jason, help!" Piper risked a quick look, and almost sobbed in despair. One of the dragons had Leo pinned to the floor. It was baring its fangs, ready to snap. Jason was all the way across the room battling the other dragon, much too far away to assist. "You've doomed us all!" Medea screamed. Smoke was rolling across the carpet as the stain spread, throwing sparks and setting fires in the clothing racks. "You have only seconds before this concoction consumes everything and destroys the building. There's no time-" CRASH! The stained glass ceiling splintered in a rain of multicolored shards, and Festus the bronze dragon dropped into the department store. He hurtled into the fray, snatching up a sun dragon in each claw. Only now did Piper appreciate just how big and strong their metal friend was. "That's my boy!" Leo yelled. Festus flew halfway up the atrium, then hurled the sun dragons into the pits they'd come from. Leo raced to the fountain and pressed the marble tile, closing the sundials. They shuddered as the dragons banged against them, trying to get out, but for the moment they were contained. Medea cursed in some ancient language. The whole fourth floor was on fire now. The air filled with noxious gas. Even with the roof open, Piper could feel the heat intensifying. She backed up to the edge of the railing, keeping her dagger pointed toward Medea. "I will not be abandoned again!" The sorceress knelt and snatched up the red healing potion, which had somehowsurvived the crash. "You want your boyfriend's memory restored? Take me with you!" Piper glanced behind her. Leo and Jason were on board Festus's back. The bronze dragon flapped his mighty wings, snatched the two cages with the satyr and the storm spirits in his claws, and began to ascend. The building rumbled. Fire and the smoke curled up the walls, melting the railings, turning the air to acid. "You'll never survive your quest without me!" Medea growled. "Your boy hero will stay ignorant forever, and your father will die. Take me with you!" For one heartbeat, Piper was tempted. Then she sawMedea's grim smile. The sorceress was confident in her powers of persuasion, confident that she could always make a deal, always escape and win in the end. "Not today, witch." Piper jumped over the side. She plummeted for only a second before Leo and Jason caught her, hauling her aboard the dragon. She heard Medea screaming in rage as they soared through the broken roof and over downtown Chicago. Then the department store exploded behind them. LEOKEPT LOOKINGBACK. HEHALFEXPECTEDto see those nasty sun dragons toting a flying chariot with a screaming magical saleswoman throwing potions, but nothing followed them. He steered the dragon toward the southwest. Eventually, the smoke from the burning department store faded in the distance, but Leo didn't relax until the suburbs of Chicago gave way to snowy fields, and the sun began to set. "Good job, Festus." He patted the dragon's metal hide. "You did awesome." The dragon shuddered. Gears popped and clicked in his neck. Leo frowned. He didn't like those noises. If the control disk was failing again-No, hopefully it was something minor. Something he could fix. "I'll give you a tune-up next time we land," Leo promised. "You've earned some motor oil and Tabasco sauce." Festus whirled his teeth, but even that sounded weak. He flew at a steady pace, his great wings angling to catch the wind, but he was carrying a heavy load. Two cages in his claws plus three people on his back-the more Leo thought about it, the more worried he got. Even metal dragons had limits. "Leo." Piper patted his shoulder. "You feeling okay?" "Yeah _ not bad for a brainwashed zombie." He hoped he didn't look as embarrassed as he felt. "Thanks for saving us back there, beauty queen. If you hadn't talked me out of that spell-" "Don't worry about it," Piper said. But Leo worried a lot. He felt terrible about how easily Medea had set him against his best friend. And those feelings hadn't come from nowhere-his resentment of the way Jason always got the spotlight and didn't really seem to need him. Leo did feel that way sometimes, even if he wasn't proud of it. What bothered him more was the news about his mom. Medea had seen the future down in the Underworld. That was how her patron, the woman in the black earthen robes, had come to the machine shop seven years ago to scare him, ruin his life. That's how his mother had died-because of something Leo might do someday. So in a weird way, even if his fire powers weren't to blame, Mom's death was still his fault. When they had left Medea in that exploding store, Leo had felt a little too good. He hoped she wouldn't make it out, and would go right back to the Fields of Punishment, where she belonged. Those feelings didn't make him proud, either. belonged. Those feelings didnt make him proud, either. And if souls were coming back from the Underworld _was it possible Leo's mom could be brought back? He tried to put the idea aside. That was Frankenstein thinking. It wasn't natural. It wasn't right. Medea might've been brought back to life, but she hadn't seemed quite human, with the hissing nails and the glowing head and whatnot. No, Leo's mom had passed on. Thinking any other way would just drive Leo nuts. Still, the thought kept poking at him, like an echo of Medea's voice. "We're going to have to put down soon," he warned his friends. "Couple more hours, maybe, to make sure Medea's not following us. I don't think Festus can fly much longer than that." "Yeah," Piper agreed. "Coach Hedge probably wants to get out of his canary cage, too. Question is-where are we going?" "The Bay Area," Leo guessed. His memories of the department store were fuzzy, but he seemed to remember hearing that. "Didn't Medea say something about Oakland?" Piper didn't respond for so long, Leo wondered if he'd said something wrong. "Piper's dad," Jason put in. "Something's happened to your dad, right? He got lured into some kind of trap." Piper let out a shaky breath. "Look, Medea said you would both die in the Bay Area. And besides _ even if we went there, the Bay Area is huge! First we need to find Aeolus and drop off the storm spirits. Boreas said Aeolus was the only one who could tell us exactly where to go." Leo grunted. "So how do we find Aeolus?" Jason leaned forward. "You mean you don't see it?" He pointed ahead of them, but Leo didn't see anything except clouds and the lights of a few towns glowing in the dusk. "What?" Leo asked. "That _ whatever it is," Jason said. "In the air." Leo glanced back. Piper looked just as confused as he was. "Right," Leo said. "Could you be more specific on the 'whatever-it-is' part?" "Like a vapor trail," Jason said. "Except it's glowing. Really faint, but it's definitely there. We've been following it since Chicago, so I figured you saw it." Leo shook his head. "Maybe Festus can sense it. You think Aeolus made it?" "Well, it's a magic trail in the wind," Jason said. "Aeolus is the wind god. I think he knows we've got prisoners for him. He's telling us where to fly." "Or it's another trap," Piper said. Her tone worried Leo. She didn't just sound nervous. She sounded broken with despair, like they'd already sealed their fate, and like it was her fault. "Pipes, you all right?" he asked. "Don't call me that." "Okay, fine. You don't like any of the names I make up for you. But if your dad's in trouble and we can help-" "You can't," she said, her voice getting shakier. "Look, I'mtired. If you don't mind _" She leaned back against Jason and closed her eyes. All right, Leo thought-pretty clear signal she didn't want to talk. They flew in silence for a while. Festus seemed to knowwhere he was going. He kept his course, gently curving toward the southwest and hopefully Aeolus's fortress. Another wind god to visit, a whole new flavor of crazy-Oh, boy, Leo couldn't wait. He had way too much on his mind to sleep, but now that he was out danger, his body had different ideas. His energy level was crashing. The monotonous beat of the dragon's wings made his eyes feel heavy. His head started to nod. "Catch a few Z's," Jason said. "It's cool. Hand me the reins." "Nah, I'm okay-" "Leo," Jason said, "you're not a machine. Besides, I'm the only one who can see the vapor trail. I'll make sure we stay on course." Leo's eyes started to close on their own. "All right. Maybe just _" He didn't finish the sentence before slumping forward against the dragon's warm neck. In his dream, he heard a voice full of static, like a bad AMradio: "Hello? Is this thing working?" Leo's vision came into focus-sort of. Everything was hazy and gray, with bands of interference running across his sight. He'd never dreamed with a bad connection before. He seemed to be in a workshop. Out of the corners of his eyes he saw bench saws, metal lathes, and tool cages.A forge glowed cheerfully against one wall. It wasn't the camp forge-too big. Not Bunker 9-much warmer and more comfortable, obviously not abandoned. Then Leo realized something was blocking the middle of his view-something large and fuzzy, and so close, Leo had to cross his eyes to see it properly. It was a large ugly face. "Holy mother!" he yelped. The face backed away and came into focus. Staring down at him was a bearded man in grimy blue coveralls. His face was lumpy and covered with welts, as if he'd been bitten by a million bees, or dragged across gravel. Possibly both. "Humph," the man said. "Holy father, boy. I should think you'd know the difference." Leo blinked. "Hephaestus?" Being in the presence of his father for the first time, Leo probably should've been speechless or awestruck or something. But after what he'd been through the last couple of days, with Cyclopes and a sorceress and a face in the potty sludge, all Leo felt was a surge of complete annoyance. "Now you show up?" he demanded. "After fifteen years? Great parenting, Fur Face. Where do you get off sticking your ugly nose into my dreams?" The god raised an eyebrow. A little spark caught fire in his beard. Then he threw back his head and laughed so loudly, the tools rattled on the workbenches. "You sound just like your mother," Hephaestus said. "I miss Esperanza." "She's been dead seven years." Leo's voice trembled. "Not that you'd care." "But I do care, boy.About both of you." "Uh-huh. Which is why I never saw you before today." The god made a rumbling sound in his throat, but he looked more uncomfortable than angry. He pulled a miniature motor from his pocket and began fiddling absently with the pistons-just the way Leo did when he was nervous. "I'm not good with children," the god confessed. "Or people. Well, any organic life forms, really. I thought about speaking to you at your mom's funeral. Then again when you were in fifth grade _ that science project you made, steampowered chicken chucker. Very impressive." "You saw that?" Hephaestus pointed to the nearest worktable, where a shiny bronze mirror showed a hazy image of Leo asleep on the dragon's back. "Is that me?" Leo asked. "Like-me right now, having this dream-looking at me having a dream?" Hephaestus scratched his beard. "Now you've confused me. But yes-it's you. I'm always keeping an eye on you, Leo. But talking to you is, um _ different." "You're scared," Leo said. "Grommets and gears!" the god yelled. "Of course not!" "Yeah, you're scared." But Leo's anger seeped away. He'd spent years thinking about what he'd say to his dad if they ever met-how Leo would chew him out for being a deadbeat. Now, looking at that bronze mirror, Leo thought about his dad watching his progress over the years, even his stupid science experiments. Maybe Hephaestus was still a jerk, but Leo kind of understood where he was coming from. Leo knew about running away from people, not fitting in. He knew about hiding out in a workshop rather than trying to deal with organic life forms. "So," Leo grumbled, "you keep track of all your kids? You got like twelve back at camp. How'd you even-Never mind. I don't want to know." Hephaestus might've blushed, but his face was so beat up and red, it was hard to tell. "Gods are different from mortals, boy. We can exist in many places at once-wherever people call on us, wherever our sphere of influence is strong. In fact, it's rare our entire essence is ever together in one place-our true form. It's dangerous, powerful enough to destroy any mortal who looks upon us. So, yes _ lots of children. Add to that our different aspects, Greek and Roman-" The god's fingers froze on his engine project. "Er, that is to say, being a god is complicated. And yes, I try to keep an eye on all my children, but you especially." Leo was pretty sure Hephaestus had almost slipped and said something important, but he wasn't sure what. "Why contact me now?" Leo asked. "I thought the gods had gone silent." "We have," Hephaestus grumped. "Zeus's orders-very strange, even for him. He's blocked all visions, dreams, and Iris-messages to and from Olympus. Hermes is sitting around bored out of his mind because he can't deliver the mail. Fortunately, I kept my old pirate broadcasting equipment." Hephaestus patted a machine on the table. It looked like a combination satellite dish, V-6 engine, and espresso maker. Each time Hephaestus jostled the machine, Leo's dreamflickered and changed color. "Used this in the Cold War," the god said fondly. "Radio Free Hephaestus. Those were the days. I keep it around for pay-for-view, mostly, or making viral brain videos-" "Viral brain videos?" "But now it's come in handy again. If Zeus knew I was contacting you, he'd have my hide." "Why is Zeus being such a jerk?" "Hrumph. He excels at that, boy." Hephaestus called himboy as if Leo were an annoying machine part-an extra washer, maybe, that had no clear purpose, but that Hephaestus didn't want to throw away for fear he might need it someday. Not exactly heartwarming. Then again, Leo wasn't sure he wanted to be called "son." Leo wasn't about to start calling this big awkward ugly guy "Dad." Hephaestus got tired of his engine and tossed it over his shoulder. Before it could hit the floor, it sprouted helicopter wings and flew itself into a recycling bin. "It was the second Titan War, I suppose," Hephaestus said. "That's what got Zeus upset. We gods were _ well, embarrassed. Don't think there's any other way to say it." "But you won," Leo said. The god grunted. "We won because the demigods of" -again he hesitated, as if he'd almost made a slip-"of Camp Half-Blood took the lead. We won because our children fought our battles for us, smarter than we did. If we'd relied on Zeus's plan, we would've all gone down to Tartarus fighting the stormgiant Typhon, and Kronos would've won. Bad enough mortals won our war for us, but then that young upstart, Percy Jackson-" "The guy who's missing." "Hmph. Yes. Him. He had the nerve to turn down our offer of immortality and tell us to pay better attention to our children. Er, no offense." "Oh, how could I take offense? Please, go on ignoring me. " "Mighty understanding of you _" Hephaestus frowned, then sighed wearily. "That was sarcasm, wasn't it? Machines don't have sarcasm, usually. But as I was saying, the gods felt ashamed, shown up by mortals. At first, of course, we were grateful. But after a few months, those feelings turned bitter. We're gods, after all. We need to be admired, looked up to, held in awe and admiration." "Even if you're wrong?" "Especially then! And to have Jackson refuse our gift, as if being mortal were somehow better than being a god... well, that stuck in Zeus's craw. He decided it was high time we got back to traditional values. Gods were to be respected. Our children were to be seen and not visited. Olympus was closed. At least that was part of his reasoning. And, of course, we started hearing of bad things stirring under the earth." "The giants, you mean. Monsters re-forming instantly. The dead rising again. Little stuff like that?" "Aye, boy." Hephaestus turned a knob on his pirate broadcasting machine. Leo's dream sharpened to full color, but the god's face was such a riot of red welts and yellow and black bruises, Leo wished it would go back to black and white. "Zeus thinks he can reverse the tide," the god said, "lull the earth back to sleep as long as we stay quiet. None of us really believes that. And I don't mind saying, we're in no shape to fight another war. We barely survived the Titans. If we're repeating the old pattern, what comes next is even worse." "The giants," Leo said. "Hera said demigods and gods had to join forces to defeat them. Is that true?" "Mmm. I hate to agree with my mother about anything, but yes. Those giants are tough to kill, boy. They're a different breed." "Breed? You make them sound like racehorses." "Ha!" the god said. "More like war dogs. Back in the beginning, y'see, everything in creation came from the same parents-Gaea and Ouranos, Earth and Sky. They had their different batches of children-your Titans, your Elder Cyclopes, and so forth. Then Kronos, the head Titan-well, you've probably heard how he chopped up his father Ouranos with a scythe and took over the world. Then we gods came along, children of the Titans, and defeated them. But that wasn't the end of it. The earth bore a new batch of children, except they were sired by Tartarus, the spirit of the eternal abyss-the darkest, most evil place in the Underworld. Those children, the giants, were bred for one purpose-revenge on us for the fall of the Titans. They rose up to destroy Olympus, and they came awfully close." Hephaestus's beard began to smolder. He absently swatted out the flames. "What my blasted mother Hera is doing now-she's a meddling fool playing a dangerous game, but she's right about one thing: you demigods have to unite. That's the only way to open Zeus's eyes, convince the Olympians they must accept your help. And that's the only way to defeat what's coming. You're a big part of that, Leo. " The god's gaze seemed far away. Leo wondered if really could split himself into different parts-where else was he right now? Maybe his Greek side was fixing a car or going on a date, while his Roman side was watching a ball game and ordering pizza. Leo tried to imagine what it would feel like to have multiple personalities. He hoped it wasn't hereditary. "Why me?" he asked, and as soon as he said it, more questions flooded out. "Why claim me now? Why not when I was thirteen, like you're supposed to? Or you could've claimed me at seven, before my mom died! Why didn't you find me earlier? Why didn't you warn me about this?" Leo's hand burst into flames. Hephaestus regarded him sadly. "Hardest part, boy. Letting my children walk their own paths. Interfering doesn't work. The Fates make sure of that. As for the claiming, you were a special case, boy. The timing had to be right. I can't explain it much more, but-" Leo's dream went fuzzy. Just for a moment, it turned into a rerun of Wheel of Fortune. Then Hephaestus came back into focus. "Blast," he said. "I can't talk much longer. Zeus is sensing an illegal dream. He is lord of the air, after all, including the airwaves. Just listen, boy: you have a role to play. Your friend Jason is right-fire is a gift, not a curse. I don't give that blessing to just anyone. They'll never defeat the giants without you, much less the mistress they serve. She's worse than any god or Titan." "Who?" Leo demanded. Hephaestus frowned, his image becoming fuzzier. "I told you. Yes, I'm pretty sure I told you. Just be warned: along the way, you're going to lose some friends and some valuable tools. But that isn't your fault, Leo. Nothing lasts forever, not even the best machines.And everything can be reused." "What do you mean? I don't like the sound of that." "No, you shouldn't." Hephaestus's image was barely visible now, just a blob in the static. "Just watch out for-" Leo's dream switched to Wheel of Fortune just as the wheel hit Bankrupt and the audience said, "Awwww!" Then Leo snapped awake to Jason and Piper screaming. THEY SPIRALED THROUGH THE DARK in a free fall, still on the dragon's back, but Festus's hide was cold. His ruby eyes were dim. "Not again!" Leo yelled. "You can't fall again!" He could barely hold on. The wind stung his eyes, but he managed to pull open the panel on the dragon's neck. He toggled the switches. He tugged the wires. The dragon's wings flapped once, but Leo caught a whiff of burning bronze. The drive system was overloaded. Festus didn't have the strength to keep flying, and Leo couldn't get to the main control panel on the dragon's head-not in midair. He saw the lights of a city below them-just flashes in the dark as they plummeted in circles. They had only seconds before they crashed. "Jason!" he screamed. "Take Piper and fly out of here!" "What?" "We need to lighten the load! I might be able to reboot Festus, but he's carrying too much weight!" "What about you?" Piper cried. "If you can't reboot him-" "I'll be fine," Leo yelled. "Just follow me to the ground. Go!" Jason grabbed Piper around the waist. They both unbuckled their harnesses, and in a flash they were gone -shooting into the air. "Now," Leo said. "Just you and me, Festus-and two heavy cages. You can do it, boy!" Leo talked to the dragon while he worked, falling at terminal velocity. He could see the city lights below him, getting closer and closer. He summoned fire in his hand so he could see what he was doing, but the wind kept extinguishing it. He pulled a wire that he thought connected the dragon's nerve center to its head, hoping for a little wake-up jolt. Festus groaned-metal creaking inside his neck. His eyes flickered weakly to life, and he spread his wings. Their fall turned into a steep glide. "Good!" Leo said. "Come on, big boy. Come on!" They were still flying in way too hot, and the ground was too close. Leo needed a place to land-fast. There was a big river-no. Not good for a fire-breathing dragon. He'd never get Festus out from the bottom if he sank, especially in freezing temperatures. Then, on the riverbanks, Leo spotted a white mansion with a huge snowy lawn inside a tall brick perimeter fence-like some rich person's private compound, all of it blazing with light. A perfect landing field. He did his best to steer the dragon toward it, and Festus seemed to come back to life. They could make this! Then everything went wrong. As they approached the lawn, spotlights along the fence fixed on them, blinding Leo. He heard bursts like tracer fire, the sound of metal being cut to shreds-and BOOM. Leo blacked out. When Leo came to his senses, Jason and Piper were leaning over him. He was lying in the snow, covered in mud and grease. He spit a clump of frozen grass out of his mouth. "Where-" "Lie still." Piper had tears in her eyes. "You rolled pretty hard when-when Festus-" "Where is he?" Leo sat up, but his head felt like it was floating. They'd landed inside the compound. Something had happened on the way in-gunfire? "Seriously, Leo," Jason said. "You could be hurt. You shouldn't-" Leo pushed himself to his feet. Then he saw the wreckage. Festus must have dropped the big canary cages as he came over the fence, because they'd rolled in different directions and landed on their sides, perfectly undamaged. Festus hadn't been so lucky. The dragon had disintegrated. His limbs were scattered across the lawn. His tail hung on the fence. The main section of his body had plowed a trench twenty feet wide and fifty feet long across the mansion's yard before breaking apart. What remained of his hide was a charred, smoking pile of scraps. Only his neck and head were somewhat intact, resting across a row of frozen rosebushes like a pillow. "No," Leo sobbed. He ran to the dragon's head and stroked its snout. The dragon's eyes flickered weakly. Oil leaked out of his ear. "You can't go," Leo pleaded. "You're the best thing I ever fixed." The dragon's head whirred its gears, as if it were purring. Jason and Piper stood next to him, but Leo kept his eyes fixed on the dragon. He remembered what Hephaestus had said: That isn't your fault, Leo. Nothing lasts forever, not even the best machines. His dad had been trying to warn him. "It's not fair," he said. The dragon clicked. Long creak. Two short clicks. Creak. Creak. Almost like a pattern _ triggering an old memory in Leo's mind. Leo realized Festus was trying to say something. He was using Morse code-just like Leo's mom had taught him years ago. Leo listened more intently, translating the clicks into letters: a simple message repeating over and over. "Yeah," Leo said. "I understand. Iwill. I promise." The dragon's eyes went dark. Festus was gone. Leo cried. He wasn't even embarrassed. His friends stood on either side, patting his shoulders, saying comforting things; but the buzzing in Leo's ears drowned out their words. Finally Jason said, "I'm so sorry, man. What did you promise Festus?" Leo sniffled. He opened the dragon's head panel, just to be sure, but the control disk was cracked and burned beyond repair. "Something my dad told me," Leo said. "Everything can be reused." "Your dad talked to you?" Jason asked. "When was this?" Leo didn't answer. He worked at the dragon's neck hinges until the head was detached. It weighed about a hundred pounds, but Leo managed to hold it in his arms. He looked up at the starry sky and said, "Take him back to the bunker, Dad. Please, until I can reuse him. I've never asked you for anything. " The wind picked up, and the dragon's head floated out of Leo's arms like it weighed nothing. It flew into the sky and disappeared. Piper looked at him in amazement. "He answered you?" "I had a dream," Leo managed. "Tell you later." He knew he owed his friends a better explanation, but Leo could barely speak. He felt like a broken machine himself-like someone had removed one little part of him, and now he'd never be complete. He might move, he might talk, he might keep going and do his job. But he'd always be off balance, never calibrated exactly right. Still, he couldn't afford to break down completely. Otherwise, Festus had died for nothing. He had to finish this quest-for his friends, for his mom, for his dragon. He looked around. The large white mansion glowed in the center of the grounds. Tall brick walls with lights and security cameras surrounded the perimeter, but now Leo could see-or rather sense-just how well those walls were defended. "Where are we?" he asked. "Imean, what city?" "Omaha, Nebraska," Piper said. "I saw a billboard as we flew in. But I don't know what this mansion is. We came in right behind you, but as you were landing, Leo, I swear it looked like -I don't know-" "Lasers," Leo said. He picked up a piece of dragon wreckage and threw it toward the top of the fence. Immediately a turret popped up from the brick wall and a beam of pure heat incinerated the bronze plating to ashes. Jason whistled. "Some defense system. How are we even alive?" "Festus," Leo said miserably. "He took the fire. The lasers sliced him to bits as he came in so they didn't focus on you. I led him into a death trap." "You couldn't have known," Piper said. "He saved our lives again." "But what now?" Jason said. "The main gates are locked, and I'm guessing I can't fly us out of here without getting shot down." Leo looked up the walkway at the big white mansion. "Since we can't go out, we'll have to go in." JASONWOULD'VEDIEDFIVETIMES on the way to the front door if not for Leo. First it was the motion-activated trapdoor on the sidewalk, then the lasers on the steps, then the nerve gas dispenser on the porch railing, the pressure-sensitive poison spikes in the welcome mat, and of course the exploding doorbell. Leo deactivated all of them. It was like he could smell the traps, and he picked just the right tool out of his belt to disable them. "You're amazing, man," Jason said. Leo scowled as he examined the front door lock. "Yeah, amazing," he said. "Can't fix a dragon right, but I'm amazing." "Hey, that wasn't your-" "Front door's already unlocked," Leo announced. Piper stared at the door in disbelief. "It is? All those traps, and the door's unlocked?" Leo turned the knob. The door swung open easily. He stepped inside without hesitation. Before Jason could follow, Piper caught his arm. "He's going to need some time to get over Festus. Don't take it personally." "Yeah," Jason said. "Yeah, okay." But still he felt terrible. Back in Medea's store, he'd said some pretty harsh stuff to Leo-stuff a friend shouldn't say, not to mention the fact he'd almost skewered Leo with a sword. If it hadn't been for Piper, they'd both be dead. And Piper hadn't gotten out of that encounter easily, either. "Piper," he said, "I know I was in a daze back in Chicago, but that stuff about your dad-if he's in trouble, I want to help. I don't care if it's a trap or not." Her eyes were always different colors, but now they looked shattered, as if she'd seen something she just couldn't cope with. "Jason, you don't know what you're saying. Please-don't make me feel worse. Come on. We should stick together." She ducked inside. "Together," Jason said to himself. "Yeah, we're doing great with that." Jason's first impression of the house: Dark. From the echo of his footsteps he could tell the entry hall was enormous, even bigger than Boreas's penthouse; but the only illumination came from the yard lights outside. A faint glow peeked through the breaks in the thick velvet curtains. The windows rose about ten feet tall. Spaced between them along the walls were life-size metal statues. As Jason's eyes adjusted, he saw sofas arranged in a U in the middle of the room, with a central coffee table and one large chair at the far end. A massive chandelier glinted overhead. Along the back wall stood a row of closed doors. "Where's the light switch?" His voice echoed alarmingly through the room. "Don't see one," Leo said. "Fire?" Piper suggested. Leo held out his hand, but nothing happened. "It's not working." "Your fire is out? Why?" Piper asked. "Well, if I knew that-" "Okay, okay," she said. "What do we do-explore?" Leo shook his head. "After all those traps outside? Bad idea." Jason's skin tingled. He hated being a demigod. Looking around, he didn't see a comfortable room to hang out in. He imagined vicious storm spirits lurking in the curtains, dragons under the carpet, a chandelier made of lethal ice shards, ready to impale them. "Leo's right," he said. "We're not separating again-not like in Detroit." "Oh, thank you for reminding me of the Cyclopes." Piper's voice quavered. "I needed that." "It's a few hours until dawn," Jason guessed. "Too cold to wait outside. Let's bring the cages in and make camp in this room. Wait for daylight; then we can decide what to do." Nobody offered a better idea, so they rolled in the cages with Coach Hedge and the storm spirits, then settled in. Thankfully, Leo didn't find any poison throw pillows or electric whoopee cushions on the sofas. Leo didn't seem in the mood to make more tacos. Besides, they had no fire, so they settled for cold rations. As Jason ate, he studied the metal statues along the walls. They looked like Greek gods or heroes. Maybe that was a good sign. Or maybe they were used for target practice. On the coffee table sat a tea service and a stack of glossy brochures, but Jason couldn't make out the words. The big chair at the other end of the table looked like a throne. None of them tried to sit in it. The canary cages didn't make the place any less creepy. The venti kept churning in their prison, hissing and spinning, and Jason got the uncomfortable feeling they were watching him. He could sense their hatred for the children of Zeus-the lord of the sky who'd ordered Aeolus to imprison their kind. The venti would like nothing better than to tear Jason apart. As for Coach Hedge, he was still frozen mid-shout, his cudgel raised. Leo was working on the cage, trying to open it with various tools, but the lock seemed to be giving him a hard time. Jason decided not to sit next to him in case Hedge suddenly unfroze and went into ninja goat mode. Despite how wired he felt, once his stomach was full, Jason started to nod off. The couches were a little too comfortable -a lot better than a dragon's back-and he'd taken the last two watches while his friends slept. He was exhausted. Piper had already curled up on the other sofa. Jason wondered if she was really asleep or dodging a conversation about her dad. Whatever Medea had meant in Chicago, about Piper getting her dad back if she cooperated-it didn't sound good. If Piper had risked her own dad to save them, that made Jason feel even guiltier. And they were running out of time. If Jason had his days straight, this was early morning of December 20. Which meant tomorrow was the winter solstice. "Get some sleep," Leo said, still working on the locked cage. "It's your turn." Jason took a deep breath. "Leo, I'm sorry about that stuff I said in Chicago. That wasn't me. You're not annoying and you do take stuff seriously-especially your work. I wish I could do half the things you can do." Leo lowered his screwdriver. He looked at the ceiling and shook his head like, What am I gonna do with this guy? "I try very hard to be annoying," Leo said. "Don't insult my ability to annoy. And how am I supposed to resent you if you go apologizing? I'm a lowly mechanic. You're like the prince of the sky, son of the Lord of the Universe. I'm supposed to resent you." "Lord of the Universe?" "Sure, you're all-bam! Lightning man. And 'Watch me fly. I am the eagle that soars-'" "Shut up, Valdez." Leo managed a little smile. "Yeah, see. I do annoy you." "I apologize for apologizing." "Thank you." He went back to work, but the tension had eased between them. Leo still looked sad and exhausted-just not quite so angry. "Go to sleep, Jason," he ordered. "It's gonna take a fewhours to get this goat man free. Then I still got to figure out howto make the winds a smaller holding cell, 'cause I am not lugging that canary cage to California." "You did fix Festus, you know," Jason said. "You gave hima purpose again. I think this quest was the high point of his life." Jason was afraid he'd blown it and made Leo mad again, but Leo just sighed. "I hope," he said. "Now, sleep, man. I want some time without you organic life forms." Jason wasn't quite sure what that meant, but he didn't argue. He closed his eyes and had a long, blissfully dreamless sleep. He only woke when the yelling started. "Ahhhggggggh!" Jason leaped to his feet. He wasn't sure what was more jarring-the full sunlight that now bathed the room, or the screaming satyr. "Coach is awake," Leo said, which was kind of unnecessary. Gleeson Hedge was capering around on his furry hindquarters, swinging his club and yelling, "Die!" as he smashed the tea set, whacked the sofas, and charged at the throne. "Coach!" Jason yelled. Hedge turned, breathing hard. His eyes were so wild, Jason was afraid he might attack. The satyr was still wearing his orange polo shirt and his coach's whistle, but his horns were clearly visible above his curly hair, and his beefy hindquarters were definitely all goat. Could you call a goat beefy? Jason put the thought aside. "You're the new kid," Hedge said, lowering his club. "Jason." He looked at Leo, then Piper, who'd apparently also just woken up. Her hair looked like it had become a nest for a friendly hamster. "Valdez, McLean," the coach said. "What's going on? We were at the Grand Canyon. The anemoi thuellai were attacking and-" He zeroed in on the storm spirit cage, and his eyes went back to DEFCON 1. "Die!" "Whoa, Coach!" Leo stepped in his path, which was pretty brave, even though Hedge was six inches shorter. "It's okay. They're locked up. We just sprang you from the other cage." "Cage? Cage? What's going on? Just because I'm a satyr doesn't mean I can't have you doing plank push-ups, Valdez!" Jason cleared his throat. "Coach-Gleeson-um, whatever you want us to call you. You saved us at the Grand Canyon. You were totally brave." "Of course Iwas!" "The extraction team came and took us to Camp HalfBlood. We thought we'd lost you. Then we got word the stormspirits had taken you back to their-um, operator, Medea." "That witch! Wait-that's impossible. She's mortal. She's dead." "Yeah, well," Leo said, "somehow she got not dead anymore." Hedge nodded, his eyes narrowing. "So! You were sent on a dangerous quest to rescue me. Excellent!" "Um." Piper got to her feet, holding out her hands so Coach Hedge wouldn't attack her. "Actually, Glee-can I still call you Coach Hedge? Gleeson seems wrong. We're on a quest for something else. We kind of found you by accident." "Oh." The coach's spirits seemed to deflate, but only for a second. Then his eyes lit up again. "But there are no accidents! Not on quests. This was meant to happen! So, this is the witch's lair, eh? Why is everything gold?" "Gold?" Jason looked around. From the way Leo and Piper caught their breath, he guessed they hadn't noticed yet either. The room was full of gold-the statues, the tea set Hedge had smashed, the chair that was definitely a throne. Even the curtains-which seemed to have opened by themselves at daybreak-appeared to be woven of gold fiber. "Nice," Leo said. "No wonder they got so much security." "This isn't-" Piper stammered. "This isn't Medea's place, Coach. It's some rich person's mansion in Omaha. We got away from Medea and crash-landed here." "It's destiny, cupcakes!" Hedge insisted. "I'm meant to protect you. What's the quest?" Before Jason could decide if he wanted to explain or just shove Coach Hedge back into his cage, a door opened at the far end of the room. A pudgy man in a white bathrobe stepped out with a golden toothbrush in his mouth. He had a white beard and one of those long, old-fashioned sleeping caps pressed down over his white hair. He froze when he saw them, and the toothbrush fell out of his mouth. He glanced into the room behind him and called, "Son? Lit, come out here, please. There are strange people in the throne room." Coach Hedge did the obvious thing. He raised his club and shouted, "Die!" IT bTaOcOkK ALL the THREE satyr. OF "Whoa, THEM Coach!"Jason said. "Bring it down a few notches." A younger man charged into the room. Jason guessed he must be Lit, the old guy's son. He was dressed in pajama pants with a sleeveless T-shirt that said cornhuskers, and he held a sword that looked like it could husk a lot of things besides corn. His ripped arms were covered in scars, and his face, framed by curly dark hair, would've been handsome if it wasn't also sliced up. Lit immediately zeroed in on Jason like he was the biggest threat, and stalked toward him, swinging his sword overhead. "Hold on!" Piper stepped forward, trying for her best calming voice. "This is just a misunderstanding! Everything's fine." Lit stopped in his tracks, but he still looked wary. It didn't help that Hedge was screaming, "I'll get them! Don't worry!" "Coach," Jason pleaded, "they may be friendly. Besides, we're trespassing in their house." "Thank you!" said the old man in the bathrobe. "Now, who are you, and why are you here?" "Let's all put our weapons down," Piper said. "Coach, you first."Hedge clenched his jaw. "Just one thwack?" "No," Piper said. "What about a compromise? I'll kill them first, and if it turns out they were friendly, I'll apologize." "No!" Piper insisted. "Meh." Coach Hedge lowered his club. Piper gave Lit a friendly sorry-about-that smile. Even with her hair messed up and wearing two-day-old clothes, she looked extremely cute, and Jason felt a little jealous she was giving Lit that smile. Lit huffed and sheathed his sword. "You speak well, girl -fortunately for your friends, or Iwould've run them through." "Appreciate it," Leo said. "I try not to get run through before lunchtime." The old man in the bathrobe sighed, kicking the teapot that Coach Hedge had smashed. "Well, since you're here. Please, sit down." Lit frowned. "Your Majesty-" "No, no, it's fine, Lit," the old man said. "New land, new customs. They may sit in my presence. After all, they've seen me in my nightclothes. No sense observing formalities." He did his best to smile, though it looked a little forced. "Welcome to my humble home. I am King Midas." "Midas? Impossible," said Coach Hedge. "He died." They were sitting on the sofas now, while the king reclined on his throne. Tricky to do that in a bathrobe, and Jason kept worrying the old guy would forget and uncross his legs. Hopefully he was wearing golden boxers under there. Lit stood behind the throne, both hands on his sword, glancing at Piper and flexing his muscular arms just to be annoying. Jason wondered if he looked that ripped holding a sword. Sadly, he doubted it. Piper sat forward. "What our satyr friend means, Your Majesty, is that you're the second mortal we've met who should be-sorry-dead. King Midas lived thousands of years ago." "Interesting." The king gazed out the windows at the brilliant blue skies and the winter sunlight. In the distance, downtown Omaha looked like a cluster of children's blocks -way too clean and small for a regular city. "You know," the king said, "I think Iwas a bit dead for a while. It's strange. Seems like a dream, doesn't it, Lit?" "A very long dream, Your Majesty." "And yet, now we're here. I'm enjoying myself very much. I like being alive better." "But how?" Piper asked. "You didn't happen to have a _ patron?" Midas hesitated, but there was a sly twinkle in his eyes. "Does it matter, my dear?" "We could kill them again," Hedge suggested. "Coach, not helping," Jason said. "Why don't you go outside and stand guard?" Leo coughed. "Is that safe? They've got some serious security." "Oh, yes," the king said. "Sorry about that. But it's lovely stuff, isn't it? Amazing what gold can still buy. Such excellent toys you have in this country!" He fished a remote control out of his bathrobe pocket and pressed a few buttons-a pass code, Jason guessed. "There," Midas said. "Safe to go out now." Coach Hedge grunted. "Fine. But if you need me _" He winked at Jason meaningfully. Then he pointed at himself, pointed two fingers at their hosts, and sliced a finger across his throat. Very subtle sign language. "Yeah, thanks," Jason said. After the satyr left, Piper tried another diplomatic smile. "So _ you don't know how you got here?" "Oh, well, yes. Sort of," the king said. He frowned at Lit. "Why did we pick Omaha, again? I know it wasn't the weather." "The oracle," Lit said. "Yes! I was told there was an oracle in Omaha." The king shrugged. "Apparently I was mistaken. But this is a rather nice house, isn't it? Lit-it's short for Lityerses, by the way-horrible name, but his mother insisted-Lit has plenty of wide-open space to practice his swordplay. He has quite a reputation for that. They called him the Reaper of Men back in the old days." "Oh." Piper tried to sound enthusiastic. "How nice." Lit's smile was more of a cruel sneer. Jason was now one hundred percent sure he didn't like this guy, and he was starting to regret sending Hedge outside. "So," Jason said. "All this gold-" The king's eyes lit up. "Are you here for gold, my boy? Please, take a brochure!" Jason looked at the brochures on the coffee table. The title said GOLD: Invest for Eternity. "Um, you sell gold?" "No, no," the king said. "Imake it. In uncertain times like these, gold is the wisest investment, don't you think? Governments fall. The dead rise. Giants attack Olympus. But gold retains its value!" Leo frowned. "I've seen that commercial." "Oh, don't be fooled by cheap imitators!" the king said. "I assure you, I can beat any price for a serious investor. I can make a wide assortment of gold items at a moment's notice." "But _" Piper shook her head in confusion. "Your Majesty, you gave up the golden touch, didn't you?" The king looked astonished. "Gave it up?" "Yes," Piper said. "You got it from some god-" "Dionysus," the king agreed. "I'd rescued one of his satyrs, and in return, the god granted me one wish. I chose the golden touch." "But you accidentally turned your own daughter to gold," Piper remembered. "And you realized how greedy you'd been. So you repented." "Repented!" King Midas looked at Lit incredulously. "You see, son? You're away for a few thousand years, and the story gets twisted all around. My dear girl, did those stories ever say I'd lost my magic touch?" "Well, I guess not. They just said you learned how to reverse it with running water, and you brought your daughter back to life." "That's all true. Sometimes I still have to reverse my touch. There's no running water in the house because I don't want accidents"-he gestured to his statues-"but we chose to live next to a river just in case. Occasionally, I'll forget and pat Lit on the back-" Lit retreated a few steps. "I hate that." "I told you I was sorry, son. At any rate, gold is wonderful. Why would I give it up?" "Well _" Piper looked truly lost now. "Isn't that the point of the story? That you learned your lesson?" Midas laughed. "My dear, may I see your backpack for a moment? Toss it here." Piper hesitated, but she wasn't eager to offend the king. She dumped everything out of the pack and tossed it to Midas. As soon as he caught it, the pack turned to gold, like frost spreading across the fabric. It still looked flexible and soft, but definitely gold. The king tossed it back. "As you see, I can still turn anything to gold," Midas said. "That pack is magic now, as well. Go ahead-put your little storm spirit enemies in there." "Seriously?" Leo was suddenly interested. He took the bag from Piper and held it up to the cage. As soon as he unzipped the backpack, the winds stirred and howled in protest. The cage bars shuddered. The door of the prison flew open and the winds got vacuumed straight into the pack. Leo zipped it shut and grinned. "Gotta admit. That's cool." "You see?" Midas said. "My golden touch a curse? Please. I didn't learn any lesson, and life isn't a story, girl. Honestly, my daughter Zoe was much more pleasant as a gold statue." "She talked a lot," Lit offered. "Exactly! And so I turned her back to gold." Midas pointed. There in the corner was a golden statue of a girl with a shocked expression, as if she were thinking, Dad! "That's horrible!" Piper said. "Nonsense. She doesn't mind. Besides, if I'd learned my lesson, would I have gotten these?" Midas pulled off his oversize sleeping cap, and Jason didn't know whether to laugh or get sick. Midas had long fuzzy gray ears sticking up from his white hair-like Bugs Bunny's, but they weren't rabbit ears. They were donkey ears. "Oh, wow," Leo said. "I didn't need to see that." "Terrible, isn't it?" Midas sighed. "A few years after the golden touch incident, I judged a music contest betweenApollo and Pan, and I declared Pan the winner. Apollo, sore loser, said I must have the ears of an ass, and voila. This was my reward for being truthful. I tried to keep them a secret. Only my barber knew, but he couldn't help blabbing." Midas pointed out another golden statue-a bald man in a toga, holding a pair of shears. "That's him. He won't be telling anyone's secrets again." The king smiled. Suddenly he didn't strike Jason as a harmless old man in a bathrobe. His eyes had a merry glow to them-the look of a madman who knew he was mad, accepted his madness, and enjoyed it. "Yes, gold has many uses. I think that must be why I was brought back, eh Lit? To bankroll our patron." Lit nodded. "That and my good sword arm." Jason glanced at his friends. Suddenly the air in the room seemed much colder. "So you do have a patron," Jason said. "You work for the giants." King Midas waved his hand dismissively. "Well, I don't care for giants myself, of course. But even supernatural armies need to get paid. I do owe my patron a great debt. I tried to explain that to the last group that came through, but they were very unfriendly. Wouldn't cooperate at all." Jason slipped his hand into his pocket and grabbed his gold coin. "The last group?" "Hunters," Lit snarled. "Blasted girls from Artemis." Jason felt a spark of electricity-a literal spark-travel down his spine. He caught a whiff of electrical fire like he'd just melted some of the springs in the sofa. His sister had been here. "When?" he demanded. "What happened?" Lit shrugged. "Few days ago? I didn't get to kill them, unfortunately. They were looking for some evil wolves, or something. Said they were following a trail, heading west. Missing demigod-I don't recall." Percy Jackson, Jason thought. Annabeth had mentioned the Hunters were looking for him. And in Jason's dream of the burned-out house in the redwoods, he'd heard enemy wolves baying. Hera had called them her keepers. It had to be connected somehow. Midas scratched his donkey ears. "Very unpleasant young ladies, those Hunters," he recalled. "They absolutely refused to be turned into gold. Much of the security system outside I installed to keep that sort of thing from happening again, you know. I don't have time for those who aren't serious investors." Jason stood warily and glanced at his friends. They got the message. "Well," Piper said, managing a smile. "It's been a great visit. Welcome back to life. Thanks for the gold bag." "Oh, but you can't leave!" Midas said. "I know you're not serious investors, but that's all right! I have to rebuild my collection." Lit was smiling cruelly. The king rose, and Leo and Piper moved away from him. "Don't worry," the king assured them. "You don't have to be turned to gold. I give all my guests a choice-join my collection, or die at the hands of Lityerses. Really, it's good either way." Piper tried to use her charmspeak. "Your Majesty, you can' t-" Quicker than any old man should've been able to move, Midas lashed out and grabbed her wrist. "No!" Jason yelled. But a frost of gold spread over Piper, and in a heartbeat she was a glittering statue. Leo tried to summon fire, but he'd forgotten his power wasn't working. Midas touched his hand, and Leo transformed into solid metal. Jason was so horrified he couldn't move. His friends-just gone.And he hadn't been able to stop it. Midas smiled apologetically. "Gold trumps fire, I'm afraid." He waved around him at all the gold curtains and furniture. "In this room, my power dampens all others: fire_ even charmspeak. Which leaves me only one more trophy to collect." "Hedge!" Jason yelled. "Need help in here!" For once, the satyr didn't charge in. Jason wondered if the lasers had gotten him, or if he was sitting at the bottom of a trap pit. Midas chuckled. "No goat to the rescue? Sad. But don't worry, my boy. It's really not painful. Lit can tell you." Jason fixed on an idea. "I choose combat. You said I could choose to fight Lit instead." Midas looked mildly disappointed, but he shrugged. "I said you could die fighting Lit. But of course, if you wish." The king backed away, and Lit raised his sword. "I'm going to enjoy this," Lit said. "I am the Reaper of Men!" "Come on, Cornhusker." Jason summoned his own weapon. This time it came up as a javelin, and Jason was glad for the extra length. "Oh, gold weapon!" Midas said. "Very nice." Lit charged. The guy was fast. He slashed and sliced, and Jason could barely dodge the strikes, but his mind went into a different mode-analyzing patterns, learning Lit's style, which was all offense, no defense. Jason countered, sidestepped, and blocked. Lit seemed surprised to find him still alive. "What is that style?" Lit growled. "You don't fight like a Greek." "Legion training," Jason said, though he wasn't sure how he knew that. "It's Roman." "Roman?" Lit struck again, and Jason deflected his blade. "What is Roman?" "News flash," Jason said. "While you were dead, Rome defeated Greece. Created the greatest empire of all time." "Impossible," Lit said. "Never even heard of them." Jason spun on one heel, smacked Lit in the chest with the butt of his javelin, and sent him toppling into Midas's throne. "Oh, dear," Midas said. "Lit?" "I'm fine," Lit growled. "You'd better help him up," Jason said. Lit cried, "Dad, no!" Too late. Midas put his hand on his son's shoulder, and suddenly a very angry-looking gold statue was sitting on Midas's throne. "Curses!" Midas wailed. "That was a naughty trick, demigod. I'll get you for that." He patted Lit's golden shoulder. "Don't worry, son. I'll get you down to the river right after I collect this prize." Midas raced forward. Jason dodged, but the old man was fast, too. Jason kicked the coffee table into the old man's legs and knocked him over, but Midas wouldn't stay down for long. Then Jason glanced at Piper's golden statue. Anger washed over him. He was the son of Zeus. He could not fail his friends. He felt a tugging sensation in his gut, and the air pressure dropped so rapidly that his ears popped. Midas must've felt it too, because he stumbled to his feet and grabbed his donkey ears."Ow! What are you doing?" he demanded. "My power is supreme here!" Thunder rumbled. Outside, the sky turned black. "You know another good use for gold?" Jason said. Midas raised his eyebrows, suddenly excited. "Yes?" "It's an excellent conductor of electricity." Jason raised his javelin, and the ceiling exploded. A lightning bolt ripped through the roof like it was an eggshell, connected with the tip of Jason's spear, and sent out arcs of energy that blasted the sofas to shreds. Chunks of ceiling plaster crashed down. The chandelier groaned and snapped offits chain, and Midas screamed as it pinned him to the floor. The glass immediately turned into gold. When the rumbling stopped, freezing rain poured into the building. Midas cursed in Ancient Greek, thoroughly pinned under his chandelier. The rain soaked everything, turning the gold chandelier back to glass. Piper and Leo were slowly changing too, along with the other statues in the room. Then the front door burst open, and Coach Hedge charged in, club ready. His mouth was covered with dirt, snow, and grass. "What'd Imiss?" he asked. "Where were you?" Jason demanded. His head was spinning from summoning the lightning bolt, and it was all he could do to keep from passing out. "Iwas screaming for help." Hedge belched. "Getting a snack. Sorry. Who needs killing?" "No one, now!" Jason said. "Just grab Leo. I'll get Piper." "Don't leave me like this!" Midas wailed. All around him the statues of his victims were turning to flesh-his daughter, his barber, and a whole lot of angrylooking guys with swords. Jason grabbed Piper's golden bag and his own supplies. Then he threw a rug over the golden statue of Lit on the throne. Hopefully that would keep the Reaper of Men from turning back to flesh-at least until after Midas's victims did. "Let's get out of here," Jason told Hedge. "I think these guys will want some quality time with Midas." PIPERWOKEUPCOLDANDSHIVERING. She'd had the worst dream about an old guy with donkey ears chasing her around and shouting, You're it! "Oh, god." Her teeth chattered. "He turned me to gold!" "You're okay now." Jason leaned over and tucked a warmblanket around her, but she still felt as cold as a Boread. She blinked, trying to figure out where they were. Next to her, a campfire blazed, turning the air sharp with smoke. Firelight flickered against rock walls. They were in a shallowcave, but it didn't offer much protection. Outside, the wind howled. Snow blew sideways. It might've been day or night. The storm made it too dark to tell. "L-L-Leo?" Piper managed. "Present and un-gold-ified." Leo was also wrapped in blankets. He didn't look great, but better than Piper felt. "I got the precious metal treatment too," he said. "But I came out of it faster. Dunno why. We had to dunk you in the river to get you faster. Dunno why. We had to dunk you in the river to get you back completely. Tried to dry you off, but _ it's really, really cold." "You've got hypothermia," Jason said. "We risked as much nectar as we could. Coach Hedge did a little nature magic-" "Sports medicine." The coach's ugly face loomed over her. "Kind of a hobby of mine. Your breath might smell like wild mushrooms and Gatorade for a few days, but it'll pass. You probably won't die. Probably." "Thanks," Piper said weakly. "How did you beat Midas?" Jason told her the story, putting most of it down to luck. The coach snorted. "Kid's being modest. You should've seen him. Hi-yah! Slice! Boom with the lightning!" "Coach, you didn't even see it," Jason said. "You were outside eating the lawn." But the satyr was just warming up. "Then I came in with my club, and we dominated that room. Afterward, I told him, 'Kid, I'm proud of you! If you could just work on your upper body strength-'" "Coach," said Jason. "Yeah?" "Shut up, please." "Sure." The coach sat down at the fire and started chewing his cudgel. Jason put his hand on Piper's forehead and checked her temperature. "Leo, can you stoke the fire?" "On it." Leo summoned a baseball-sized clump of flames and lobbed it into the campfire. "Do I look that bad?" Piper shivered. "Nah," Jason said. "You're a terrible liar," she said. "Where are we?" "Pikes Peak," Jason said. "Colorado." "But that's, what-five hundred miles from Omaha?" "Something like that," Jason agreed. "I harnessed the storm spirits to bring us this far. They didn't like it-went a little faster than I wanted, almost crashed us into the mountainside before I could get them back in the bag. I'm not going to be trying that again." "Why are we here?" Leo sniffed. "That's what I asked him." Jason gazed into the storm as if watching for something. "That glittery wind trail we saw yesterday? It was still in the sky, though it had faded a lot. I followed it until I couldn't see it anymore. Then-honestly I'm not sure. I just felt like this was the right place to stop." "'Course it is." Coach Hedge spit out some cudgel splinters. "Aeolus's floating palace should be anchored above us, right at the peak. This is one of his favorite spots to dock." "Maybe that was it." Jason knit his eyebrows. "I don't know. Something else, too _" "The Hunters were heading west," Piper remembered. "Do you think they're around here?" Jason rubbed his forearm as if the tattoos were bothering him. "I don't see how anyone could survive on the mountain right now. The storm's pretty bad. It's already the evening before the solstice, but we didn't have much choice except to wait out the storm here. We had to give you some time to rest before we tried moving." He didn't need to convince her. The wind howling outside the cave scared her, and she couldn't stop shivering. "We have to get you warm." Jason sat next to her and held out his arms a little awkwardly. "Uh, you mind if I_" "I suppose." She tried to sound nonchalant. He put his arms around her and held her. They scooted closer to the fire. Coach Hedge chewed on his club and spit splinters into the fire. Leo broke out some cooking supplies and started frying burger patties on an iron skillet. "So, guys, long as you're cuddled up for story time _ something I've been meaning to tell you. On the way to Omaha, I had this dream. Kinda hard to understand with the static and the Wheel of Fortune breaking in-" "Wheel of Fortune?" Piper assumed Leo was kidding, but when he looked up from his burgers, his expression was deadly serious. "The thing is," he said, "my dad Hephaestus talked to me." Leo told them about his dream. In the firelight, with the wind howling, the story was even creepier. Piper could imagine the static-filled voice of the god warning about giants who were the sons of Tartarus, and about Leo losing some friends along the way. She tried to concentrate on something good: Jason's arms around her, the warmth slowly spreading into her body, but she was terrified. "I don't understand. If demigods and gods have to work together to kill the giants, why would the gods stay silent? If they need us-" "Ha," said Coach Hedge. "The gods h a te needing humans. They like to be needed by humans, but not the other way around. Things will have to get a whole lot worse before Zeus admits he made a mistake closing Olympus." "Coach," Piper said, "that was almost an intelligent comment." Hedge huffed. "What? I'm intelligent! I'm not surprised you cupcakes haven't heard of the Giant War. The gods don't like to talk about it. Bad PR to admit you needed mortals to help beat an enemy. That's just embarrassing." "There's more, though," Jason said. "When I dreamed about Hera in her cage, she said Zeus was acting unusually paranoid. And Hera-she said she went to those ruins because a voice had been speaking in her head. What if someone's influencing the gods, like Medea influenced us?" Piper shuddered. She'd had a similar thought-that some force they couldn't see was manipulating things behind the scenes, helping the giants. Maybe the same force was keeping Enceladus informed about their movements, and had even knocked their dragon out of the sky over Detroit. Perhaps Leo's sleeping Dirt Woman, or another servant of hers _ Leo set hamburger buns on the skillet to toast. "Yeah, Hephaestus said something similar, like Zeus was acting weirder than usual. But what bothered me was the stuff my dad didn't say. Like a couple of times he was talking about the demigods, and how he had so many kids and all. I don't know. He acted like getting the greatest demigods together was going to be almost impossible-like Hera was trying, but it was a really stupid thing to do, and there was some secret Hephaestus wasn't supposed to tell me." Jason shifted. Piper could feel the tension in his arms. "Chiron was the same way back at camp," he said. "He mentioned a sacred oath not to discuss-something. Coach, you know anything about that?" "Nah. I'm just a satyr. They don't tell us the juicy stuff. Especially an old-" He stopped himself. "An old guy like you?" Piper asked. "But you're not that old, are you?" "Hundred and six," the coach muttered. Leo coughed. "Say what?" "Don't catch your panties on fire, Valdez. That's just fiftythree in human years. Still, yeah, I made some enemies on the Council of Cloven Elders. I've been a protector a longtime. But they started saying I was getting unpredictable. Too violent. Can you imagine?" "Wow." Piper tried not to look at her friends. "That's hard to believe." Coach scowled. "Yeah, then finally we get a good war going with the Titans, and do they put me on the front lines? No! They send me as far away as possible-the Canadian frontier, can you believe it? Then after the war, they put me out to pasture. The Wilderness School. Bah! Like I'm too old to be helpful just because I like playing offense. All those flowerpickers on the Council-talking about nature." "I thought satyrs liked nature," Piper ventured. "Shoot, I love nature," Hedge said. "Nature means big things killing and eating little things! And when you're a -you know-vertically challenged satyr like me, you get in good shape, you carry a big stick, and you don't take nothing fromno one! That's nature." Hedge snorted indignantly. "Flowerpickers. Anyway, I hope you got something vegetarian cooking, Valdez. I don't do flesh." "Yeah, Coach. Don't eat your cudgel. I got some tofu patties here. Piper's a vegetarian too. I'll throw them on in a second." The smell of frying burgers filled the air. Piper usually hated the smell of cooking meat, but her stomach rumbled like it wanted to mutiny. I'm losing it, she thought. Think broccoli. Carrots. Lentils. Her stomach wasn't the only thing rebelling. Lying by the fire, with Jason holding her, Piper's conscience felt like a hot bullet slowing working its way toward her heart. All the guilt she'd been holding in for the last week, since the giant Enceladus had first sent her a dream, was about to kill her. Her friends wanted to help her. Jason even said he'd walk into a trap to save her dad.And Piper had shut them out. For all she knew, she'd already doomed her father when she attacked Medea. She choked back a sob. Maybe she'd done the right thing in Chicago by saving her friends, but she'd only delayed her problem. She could never betray her friends, but the tiniest part of her was desperate enough to think, What if I did? She tried to imagine what her dad would say. Hey, Dad, if you were ever chained up by a cannibal giant and I had to betray a couple of friends to save you, what should I do? Funny, that had never come up when they did Any Three Questions. Her dad would never take the question seriously, of course. He'd probably tell her one of Grandpa Tom's old stories-something with glowing hedgehogs and talking birds -and then laugh about it as if the advice was silly. Piper wished she remembered her grandpa better. Sometimes she dreamed about that little two-room house in Oklahoma. She wondered what it would've been like to growup there. Her dad would think that was nuts. He'd had spent his whole life running away from that place, distancing himself fromthe rez, playing any role except Native American. He'd always told Piper how lucky she was to grow up rich and well caredfor, in a nice house in California. She'd learned to be vaguely uncomfortable about her ancestry-like Dad's old pictures from the eighties, when he had feathered hair and crazy clothes. Can you believe I ever looked like that? he'd say. Being Cherokee was the same way for him-something funny and mildly embarrassing. But what else were they? Dad didn't seem to know. Maybe that's why he was always so unhappy, changing roles. Maybe that's why Piper started stealing things, looking for something her dad couldn't give her. Leo put tofu patties on the skillet. The wind kept raging. Piper thought of an old story her dad had told her _ one that maybe did answer some of her questions. One day in second grade she'd come home in tears and demanded why her father had named her Piper. The kids were making fun of her because Piper Cherokee was a kind of airplane. Her dad laughed, as if that had never occurred to him. "No, Pipes. Fine airplane. That's not how I named you. Grandpa Tom picked out your name. First time he heard you cry, he said you had a powerful voice-better than any reed flute piper. He said you'd learn to sing the hardest Cherokee songs, even the snake song." "The snake song?" Dad told her the legend-how one day a Cherokee woman had seen a snake playing too near her children and killed it with a rock, not realizing it was the king of rattlesnakes. The snakes prepared for war on the humans, but the woman's husband tried to make peace. He promised he'd do anything to repay the rattlesnakes. The snakes held him to his word. They told him to send his wife to the well so the snakes could bite her and take her life in exchange. The man was heartbroken, but he did what they asked.Afterward, the snakes were impressed that the man had given up so much and kept his promise. They taught him the snake song for all the Cherokee to use. From that point on, if any Cherokee met a snake and sang that song, the snake would recognize the Cherokee as a friend, and would not bite. "That's awful!" Piper had said. "He let his wife die?" Her dad spread his hands. "It was a hard sacrifice. But one life brought generations of peace between snakes and Cherokee. Grandpa Tom believed that Cherokee music could solve almost any problem. He thought you'd know lots of songs, and be the greatest musician of the family. That's why we named you Piper." A hard sacrifice. Had her grandfather foreseen something about her, even when she was a baby? Had he sensed she was a child of Aphrodite? Her dad would probably tell her that was crazy. Grandpa Tom was no oracle. But still _ she'd made a promise to help on this quest. Her friends were counting on her. They'd saved her when Midas had turned her to gold. They'd brought her back to life. She couldn't repay them with lies. Gradually, she started to feel warmer. She stopped shivering and settled against Jason's chest. Leo handed out the food. Piper didn't want to move, talk, or do anything to disrupt the moment. But she had to. "We need to talk." She sat up so she could face Jason. "I don't want to hide anything from you guys anymore." They looked at her with their mouths full of burger. Too late to change her mind now. "Three nights before the Grand Canyon trip," she said, "I had a dream vision-a giant, telling me my father had been taken hostage. He told me I had to cooperate, or my dad would be killed." The flames crackled. Finally Jason said, "Enceladus? You mentioned that name before." Coach Hedge whistled. "Big giant. Breathes fire. Not somebody I'd want barbecuing my daddy goat." Jason gave him a shut up look. "Piper, go on. What happened next?" "I-I tried to reach my dad, but all I got was his personal assistant, and she told me not to worry." "Jane?" Leo remembered. "Didn't Medea say something about controlling her?" Piper nodded. "To get my dad back, I had to sabotage this quest. I didn't realize it would be the three of us. Then after we started the quest, Enceladus sent me another warning: He told me he wanted you two dead. He wants me to lead you to a mountain. I don't know exactly which one, but it's in the Bay Area-I could see the Golden Gate Bridge from the summit. I have to be there by noon on the solstice, tomorrow. An exchange." She couldn't meet her friends' eyes. She waited for themto yell at her, or turn their backs, or kick her out into the snowstorm. Instead, Jason scooted next to her and put his arm around her again. "God, Piper. I'm so sorry." Leo nodded. "No kidding. You've been carrying this around for a week? Piper, we could help you." She glared at them. "Why don't you yell at me or something? Iwas ordered to kill you!" "Aw, come on," Jason said. "You've saved us both on this quest. I'd put my life in your hands any day." "Same," Leo said. "Can I have a hug too?" "You don't get it!" Piper said. "I've probably just killed my dad, telling you this." "I doubt it." Coach Hedge belched. He was eating his tofu burger folded inside the paper plate, chewing it all like a taco. "Giant hasn't gotten what he wants yet, so he still needs your dad for leverage. He'll wait until the deadline passes, see if you show up. He wants you to divert the quest to this mountain, right?" Piper nodded uncertainly. "So that means Hera is being kept somewhere else," Hedge reasoned. "And she has to be saved by the same day. So you have to choose-rescue your dad, or rescue Hera. If you go after Hera, then Enceladus takes care of your dad. Besides, Enceladus would never let you go even if you cooperated. You're obviously one of the seven in the Great Prophecy." One of the seven. She'd talked about this before with Jason and Leo, and she supposed it must be true, but she still had trouble believing it. She didn't feel that important. She was just a stupid child of Aphrodite. How could she be worth deceiving and killing? "So we have no choice," she said miserably. "We have to save Hera, or the giant king gets unleashed. That's our quest. The world depends on it. And Enceladus seems to have ways of watching me. He isn't stupid. He'll know if we change course and go the wrong way. He'll kill my dad." "He's not going to kill your dad," Leo said. "We'll save him." "We don't have time!" Piper cried. "Besides, it's a trap." "We're your friends, beauty queen," Leo said. "We're not going to let your dad die. We just gotta figure out a plan." Coach Hedge grumbled. "Would help if we knew where this mountain was. Maybe Aeolus can tell you that. The Bay Area has a bad reputation for demigods. Old home of the Titans, Mount Othrys, sits over Mount Tam, where Atlas holds up the sky. I hope that's not the mountain you saw." Piper tried to remember the vista in her dreams. "I don't think so. This was inland." Jason frowned at the fire, like he was trying to remember something. "Bad reputation _ that doesn't seem right. The Bay Area _" "You think you've been there?" Piper asked. "I _" He looked like he was almost on the edge of a breakthrough. Then the anguish came back into his eyes. "I don't know. Hedge, what happened to Mount Othrys?" Hedge took another bite of paper and burger. "Well, Kronos built a new palace there last summer. Big nasty place, was going to be the headquarters for his new kingdom and all. Weren't any battles there, though. Kronos marched on Manhattan, tried to take Olympus. If I remember right, he left some other Titans in charge of his palace, but after Kronos got defeated in Manhattan, the whole palace just crumbled on its own." "No," Jason said. Everyone looked at him. "What do you mean, 'No'?" Leo asked. "That's not what happened. I-" He tensed, looking toward the cave entrance. "Did you hear that?" For a second, nothing. Then Piper heard it: howls piercing the night. "WOLVES," PIPERSAID. "THEYSOUNDCLOSE." Jason rose and summoned his sword. Leo and Coach Hedge got to their feet too. Piper tried, but black spots danced before her eyes. "Stay there," Jason told her. "We'll protect you." She gritted her teeth. She hated feeling helpless. She didn't want anyone to protect her. First the stupid ankle. Nowstupid hypothermia. She wanted to be on her feet, with her dagger in her hand. Then, just outside the firelight at the entrance of the cave, she saw a pair of red eyes glowing in dark. Okay, she thought. Maybe a little protection is fine. More wolves edged into the firelight-black beasts bigger than Great Danes, with ice and snow caked on their fur. Their fangs gleamed, and their glowing red eyes looked disturbingly intelligent. The wolf in front was almost as tall as a horse, his mouth stained as if he'd just made a fresh kill. Piper pulled her dagger out of its sheath. Then Jason stepped forward and said something in Latin. Piper didn't think a dead language would have much effect on wild animals, but the alpha wolf curled his lip. The fur stood up along his spine. One of his lieutenants tried to advance, but the alpha wolf snapped at his ear. Then all of the wolves backed into the dark. "Dude, I gotta study Latin." Leo's hammer shook in his hand. "What'd you say, Jason?" Hedge cursed. "Whatever it was, it wasn't enough. Look." The wolves were coming back, but the alpha wolf wasn't with them. They didn't attack. They waited-at least a dozen now, in a rough semicircle just outside the firelight, blocking the cave exit. The coach hefted his club. "Here's the plan. I'll kill them all, and you guys escape." "Coach, they'll rip you apart," Piper said. "Nah, I'm good." Then Piper saw the silhouette of a man coming through the storm, wading through the wolf pack. "Stick together," Jason said. "They respect a pack. And Hedge, no crazy stuff. We're not leaving you or anyone else behind." Piper got a lump in her throat. She was the weak link in their "pack" right now. No doubt the wolves could smell her fear. She might as well be wearing a sign that said free lunch. The wolves parted, and the man stepped into the firelight. His hair was greasy and ragged, the color of fireplace soot, topped with a crown of what looked like finger bones. His robes were tattered fur-wolf, rabbit, raccoon, deer, and several others Piper couldn't identify. The furs didn't look cured, and from the smell, they weren't very fresh. His frame was lithe and muscular, like a distance runner's. But the most horrible thing was his face. His thin pale skin was pulled tight over his skull. His teeth were sharpened like fangs. His eyes glowed bright red like his wolves'-and they fixed on Jason with absolute hatred. "Ecce," he said, "filli Romani." "Speak English, wolf man!" Hedge bellowed. The wolf man snarled. "Tell your faun to mind his tongue, son of Rome. Or he'll be my first snack." Piper remembered that faun was the Roman name for satyr.Not exactly helpful information. Now, if she could remember who this wolf guy was in Greek mythology, and howto defeat him, that she could use. The wolf man studied their little group. His nostrils twitched. "So it's true," he mused. "A child of Aphrodite. A son of Hephaestus. A faun. And a child of Rome, of Lord Jupiter, no less.All together, without killing each other. How interesting." "You were told about us?" Jason asked. "By whom?" The man snarled-perhaps a laugh, perhaps a challenge. "Oh, we've been patrolling for you all across the west, demigod, hoping we'd be the first to find you. The giant king will reward me well when he rises. I am Lycaon, king of the wolves.And my pack is hungry." The wolves snarled in the darkness. Out of the corner of her eye, Piper saw Leo put up his hammer and slip something else from his tool belt-a glass bottle full of clear liquid. Piper racked her brain trying to place the wolf guy's name. She knew she'd heard it before, but she couldn't remember details. Lycaon glared at Jason's sword. He moved to each side as if looking for an opening, but Jason's blade moved with him. "Leave," Jason ordered. "There's no food for you here." "Unless you want tofu burgers," Leo offered. Lycaon bared his fangs.Apparently he wasn't a tofu fan. "If I had my way," Lycaon said with regret, "I'd kill you first, son of Jupiter. Your father made me what I am. I was the powerful mortal king of Arcadia, with fifty fine sons, and Zeus slew them all with his lightning bolts." "Ha," Coach Hedge said. "For good reason!" Jason glanced over his shoulder. "Coach, you know this clown?" "I do," Piper answered. The details of the myth came back to her-a short, horrible story she and her father had laughed at over breakfast. She wasn't laughing now. "Lycaon invited Zeus to dinner," she said. "But the king wasn't sure it was really Zeus. So to test his powers, Lycaon tried to feed him human flesh. Zeus got outraged-" "And killed my sons!" Lycaon howled. The wolves behind him howled too. "So Zeus turned him into a wolf," Piper said. "They call_they call werewolves lycanthropes, named after him, the first werewolf." "The king of wolves," Coach Hedge finished. "An immortal, smelly, vicious mutt." Lycaon growled. "Iwill tear you apart, faun!" "Oh, you want some goat, buddy? 'Cause I'll give you goat. " "Stop it," Jason said. "Lycaon, you said you wanted to kill me first, but...?" "Sadly, Child of Rome, you are spoken for. Since this one" -he waggled his claws at Piper-"has failed to kill you, you are to be delivered alive to the Wolf House. One of my compatriots has asked for the honor of killing you herself." "Who?" Jason said. The wolf king snickered. "Oh, a great admirer of yours. Apparently, you made quite an impression on her. She will take care of you soon enough, and really I cannot complain. Spilling your blood at the Wolf House should mark my new territory quite well. Lupa will think twice about challenging my pack." Piper's heart tried to jump out of her chest. She didn't understand everything Lycaon had said, but a woman who wanted to kill Jason? Medea, she thought. Somehow, she must've survived the explosion. Piper struggled to her feet. Spots danced before her eyes again. The cave seemed to spin. "You're going to leave now," Piper said, "before we destroy you." She tried to put power into the words, but she was too weak. Shivering in her blankets, pale and sweaty and barely able to hold a knife, she couldn't have looked very threatening. Lycaon's red eyes crinkled with humor. "A brave try, girl. I admire that. Perhaps I'll make your end quick. Only the son of Jupiter is needed alive. The rest of you, I'm afraid, are dinner." At that moment, Piper knew she was going to die. But at least she'd die on her feet, fighting next to Jason. Jason took a step forward. "You're not killing anyone, wolf man. Not without going through me." Lycaon howled and extended his claws. Jason slashed at him, but his golden sword passed straight through as if the wolf king wasn't there. Lycaon laughed. "Gold, bronze, steel-none of these are any good against my wolves, son of Jupiter." "Silver!" Piper cried. "Aren't werewolves hurt by silver?" "We don't have any silver!" Jason said. Wolves leaped into the firelight. Hedge charged forward with an elated "Woot!" But Leo struck first. He threw his glass bottle and it shattered on the ground, splattering liquid all over the wolves -the unmistakable smell of gasoline. He shot a burst of fire at the puddle, and a wall of flames erupted. Wolves yelped and retreated. Several caught fire and had to run back into the snow. Even Lycaon looked uneasily at the barrier of flames now separating his wolves from the demigods. "Aw, c'mon," Coach Hedge complained. "I can't hit them if they're way over there." Every time a wolf came closer, Leo shot a new wave of fire from his hands, but each effort seemed to make him a little more tired, and the gasoline was already dying down. "I can't summon any more gas!" Leo warned. Then his face turned red. "Wow, that came out wrong. I mean the burningkind. Gonna take the tool belt a while to recharge. What you got, man?" "Nothing," Jason said. "Not even a weapon that works." "Lightning?" Piper asked. Jason concentrated, but nothing happened. "I think the snowstorm is interfering, or something." "Unleash the venti!" Piper said. "Then we'll have nothing to give Aeolus," Jason said. "We'll have come all this way for nothing." Lycaon laughed. "I can smell your fear. A few more minutes of life, heroes. Pray to whatever gods you wish. Zeus did not grant me mercy, and you will have none from me." The flames began to sputter out. Jason cursed and dropped his sword. He crouched like he was ready to go handto-hand. Leo pulled his hammer out of his pack. Piper raised her dagger-not much, but it was all she had. Coach Hedge hefted his club, and he was the only one who looked excited about dying. Then a ripping sound cut through the wind-like a piece of tearing cardboard. A long stick sprouted from the neck of the nearest wolf-the shaft of a silver arrow. The wolf writhed and fell, melting into a puddle of shadow. More arrows. More wolves fell. The pack broke in confusion. An arrow flashed toward Lycaon, but the wolf king caught it in midair. Then he yelled in pain. When he dropped the arrow, it left a charred, smoking gash across his palm. Another arrow caught him in the shoulder, and the wolf king staggered. "Curse them!" Lycaon yelled. He growled at his pack, and the wolves turned and ran. Lycaon fixed Jason with those glowing red eyes. "This isn't over, boy." The wolf king disappeared into the night. Seconds later, Piper heard more wolves baying, but the sound was different-less threatening, more like hunting dogs on the scent. A smaller white wolf burst into the cave, followed by two more. Hedge said, "Kill it?" "No!" Piper said. "Wait." The wolves tilted their heads and studied the campers with huge golden eyes. A heartbeat later, their masters appeared: a troop of hunters in white-and-gray winter camouflage, at least half a dozen. All of them carried bows, with quivers of glowing silver arrows on their backs. Their faces were covered with parka hoods, but clearly they were all girls. One, a little taller than the rest, crouched in the firelight and snatched up the arrow that had wounded Lycaon's hand. "So close." She turned to her companions. "Phoebe, stay with me. Watch the entrance. The rest of you, follow Lycaon. We can't lose him now. I'll catch up with you." The other hunters mumbled agreement and disappeared, heading after Lycaon's pack. The girl in white turned toward them, her face still hidden in her parka hood. "We've been following that demon's trail for over a week. Is everyone all right? No one got bit?" Jason stood frozen, staring at the girl. Piper realized something about her voice sounded familiar. It was hard to pin down, but the way she spoke, the way she formed her words, reminded her of Jason. "You're her," Piper guessed. "You're Thalia." The girl tensed. Piper was afraid she might draw her bow, but instead she pulled down her parka hood. Her hair was spiky black, with a silver tiara across her brow. Her face had a super-healthy glow to it, as if she were a little more than human, and her eyes were brilliant blue. She was the girl fromJason's photograph. "Do I know you?" Thalia asked. Piper took a breath. "This might be a shock, but-" "Thalia." Jason stepped forward, his voice trembling. "I'mJason, your brother." LEO FIGURED HE HAD THE WORST LUCK in the group, and that was saying a lot. Why didn't he get to have the long-lost sister or the movie star dad who needed rescuing? All he got was a tool belt and a dragon that broke down halfway through the quest. Maybe it was the stupid curse of the Hephaestus cabin, but Leo didn't think so. His life had been unlucky way before he got to camp. A thousand years from now, when this quest was being told around a campfire, he figured people would talk about brave Jason, beautiful Piper, and their sidekick Flaming Valdez, who accompanied them with a bag of magic screwdrivers and occasionally fixed tofu burgers. If that wasn't bad enough, Leo fell in love with every girl he saw-as long as she was totally out of his league. When he first saw Thalia, Leo immediately thought she was way too pretty to be Jason's sister. Then he thought he'd better not say that or he'd get in trouble. He liked her dark hair, her blue eyes, and her confident attitude. She looked like the kind of girl who could stomp anybody on the ball court or the battlefield, and wouldn't give Leo the time of day-just Leo's type! For a minute, Jason and Thalia faced each other, stunned. Then Thalia rushed forward and hugged him. "My gods! She told me you were dead!" She gripped Jason's face and seemed to be examining everything about it. "Thank Artemis, it is you. That little scar on your lip-you tried to eat a stapler when you were two!" Leo laughed. "Seriously?" Hedge nodded like he approved of Jason's taste. "Staplers -excellent source of iron." "W-wait," Jason stammered. "Who told you I was dead? What happened?" At the cave entrance, one of the white wolves barked. Thalia looked back at the wolf and nodded, but she kept her hands on Jason's face, like she was afraid he might vanish. "My wolf is telling me I don't have much time, and she's right. But we have to talk. Let's sit." Piper did better than that. She collapsed. She would've cracked her head on the cave floor if Hedge hadn't caught her. Thalia rushed over. "What's wrong with her? Ah-never mind. I see. Hypothermia. Ankle." She frowned at the satyr. "Don't you know nature healing?" Hedge scoffed. "Why do you think she looks this good? Can't you smell the Gatorade?" Thalia looked at Leo for the first time, and of course it was an accusatory glare, like Why did you let the goat be a doctor? As if that was Leo's fault. "You and the satyr," Thalia ordered, "take this girl to my friend at the entrance. Phoebe's an excellent healer." "It's cold out there!" Hedge said. "I'll freeze my horns off." But Leo knew when they weren't wanted. "Come on, Hedge. These two need time to talk." "Humph. Fine," the satyr muttered. "Didn't even get to brain anybody." Hedge carried Piper toward the entrance. Leo was about to follow when Jason called, "Actually, man, could you, um, stick around?" Leo saw something in Jason's eyes he didn't expect: Jason was asking for support. He wanted somebody else there. He was scared. Leo grinned. "Sticking around is my specialty." Thalia didn't look too happy about it, but the three of themsat at the fire. For a few minutes, nobody spoke. Jason studied his sister like she was a scary device-one that might explode if handled incorrectly. Thalia seemed more at ease, as if she was used to stumbling across stranger things than long-lost relatives. But still she regarded Jason in a kind of amazed trance, maybe remembering a little two-year-old who tried to eat a stapler. Leo took a few pieces of copper wire out of his pockets and twisted them together. Finally he couldn't stand the silence. "So _ the Hunters of Artemis. This whole 'not dating' thing-is that like always, or more of a seasonal thing, or what?" Thalia stared at him as if he'd just evolved from pond scum. Yeah, he was definitely liking this girl. Jason kicked him in the shin. "Don't mind Leo. He's just trying to break the ice. But, Thalia _ what happened to our family? Who told you Iwas dead?" Thalia tugged at a silver bracelet on her wrist. In the firelight, in her winter camouflage, she almost looked like Khione the snow princess-just as cold and beautiful. "Do you remember anything?" she asked. Jason shook his head. "Iwoke up three days ago on a bus with Leo and Piper." "Which wasn't our fault," Leo added hastily. "Hera stole his memories." Thalia tensed. "Hera? How do you know that?" Jason explained about their quest-the prophecy at camp, Hera getting imprisoned, the giant taking Piper's dad, and the winter solstice deadline. Leo chimed in to add the important stuff: how he'd fixed the bronze dragon, could throw fireballs, and made excellent tacos. Thalia was a good listener. Nothing seemed to surprise her-the monsters, the prophecies, the dead rising. But when Jason mentioned King Midas, she cursed inAncient Greek. "I knew we should've burned down his mansion," she said. "That man's a menace. But we were so intent on following Lycaon-Well, I'm glad you got away. So Hera's been _ what, hiding you all these years?" "I don't know." Jason brought out the photo from his pocket. "She left me just enough memory to recognize your face." Thalia looked at the picture, and her expression softened. "I'd forgotten about that. I left it in CabinOne, didn't I?" Jason nodded. "I think Hera wanted for us to meet. When we landed here, at this cave _ I had a feeling it was important. Like I knew you were close by. Is that crazy?" "Nah," Leo assured him. "We were absolutely destined to meet your hot sister." Thalia ignored him. Probably she just didn't want to let on how much Leo impressed her. "Jason," she said, "when you're dealing with the gods, nothing is too crazy. But you can't trust Hera, especially since we're children of Zeus. She hates all children of Zeus." "But she said something about Zeus giving her my life as a peace offering. Does that make any sense?" The color drained from Thalia's face. "Oh, gods. Mother wouldn't have _ You don't remember-No, of course you don't." "What?" Jason asked. Thalia's features seemed to grow older in the firelight, like her immortality wasn't working so well. "Jason _ I'm not sure how to say this. Our mom wasn't exactly stable. She caught Zeus's eye because she was a television actress, and she was beautiful, but she didn't handle the fame well. She drank, pulled stupid stunts. She was always in the tabloids. She could never get enough attention. Even before you were born, she and I argued all the time. She _ she knew Dad was Zeus, and I think that was too much for her to take. It was like the ultimate achievement for her to attract the lord of the sky, and she couldn't accept it when he left. The thing about the gods_ well, they don't hang around." Leo remembered his own mom, the way she'd assured him over and over that his dad would be back someday. But she'd never acted mad about it. She didn't seem to want Hephaestus for herself-only so Leo could know his father. She'd dealt with working a dead-end job, living in a tiny apartment, never having enough money-and she'd seemed fine with it. As long as she had Leo, she always said, life would be okay. He watched Jason's face-looking more and more devastated as Thalia described their mom-and for once, Leo didn't feel jealous of his friend. Leo might have lost his mom. He might have had some hard times. But at least he remembered her. He found himself tapping out a Morse code message on his knee: Love you. He felt bad for Jason, not having memories like that-not having anything to fall back on. "So _" Jason didn't seem able to finish the question. "Jason, you got friends," Leo told him. "Now you got a sister. You're not alone." Thalia offered her hand, and Jason took it. "When I was about seven," she said, "Zeus started visiting Mom again. I think he felt bad about wrecking her life, and he seemed-different somehow. A little older and sterner, more fatherly toward me. For a while, Mom improved. She loved having Zeus around, bringing her presents, causing the sky to rumble. She always wanted more attention. That's the year you were born. Mom _ well, I never got along with her, but you gave me a reason to hang around. You were so cute. And I didn't trust Mom to look after you. Of course, Zeus eventually stopped coming by again. He probably couldn't stand Mom's demands anymore, always pestering him to let her visit Olympus, or to make her immortal or eternally beautiful. When he left for good, Mom got more and more unstable. That was about the time the monsters started attacking me. Mom blamed Hera. She claimed the goddess was coming after you too-that Hera had barely tolerated my birth, but two demigod children from the same family was too big an insult. Mom even said she hadn't wanted to name you Jason, but Zeus insisted, as a way to appease Hera because the goddess liked that name. I didn't know what to believe." Leo fiddled with his copper wires. He felt like an intruder. He shouldn't be listening to this, but it also made him feel like he was getting to know Jason for the first time-like maybe being here now made up for those four months at Wilderness School, when Leo had just imagined they'd had a friendship. "How did you guys get separated?" he asked. Thalia squeezed her brother's hand. "If I'd known you were alive _ gods, things would've been so different. But when you were two, Mom packed us in the car for a family vacation. We drove up north, toward the wine country, to this park she wanted to show us. I remember thinking it was strange because Mom never took us anywhere, and she was acting super nervous. I was holding your hand, walking you toward this big building in the middle of the park, and _" She took a shaky breath. "Mom told me to go back to the car and get the picnic basket. I didn't want to leave you alone with her, but it was only for a few minutes. When I came back _ Mom was kneeling on the stone steps, hugging herself and crying. She said-she said you were gone. She said Hera claimed you and you were as good as dead. I didn't know what she'd done. I was afraid she'd completely lost her mind. I ran all over the place looking for you, but you'd just vanished. She had to drag me away, kicking and screaming. For the next few days I was hysterical. I don't remember everything, but I called the police on Mom and they questioned her for a long time. Afterward, we fought. She told me I'd betrayed her, that I should support her, like she was the only one who mattered. Finally I couldn't stand it. Your disappearance was the last straw. I ran away fromhome, and I never went back, not even when Mom died a fewyears ago. I thought you were gone forever. I never told anyone about you-not even Annabeth or Luke, my two best friends. It was just too painful." "Chiron knew." Jason's voice sounded far away. "When I got to camp, he took one look at me and said, 'You should be dead.'" "That doesn't make sense," Thalia insisted. "I never told him." "Hey," Leo said. "Important thing is you've got each other now, right? You two are lucky." Thalia nodded. "Leo's right. Look at you. You're my age. You've grown up." "But where have I been?" Jason said. "How could I be missing all that time? And the Roman stuff _" Thalia frowned. "The Roman stuff?" "Your brother speaks Latin," Leo said. "He calls gods by their Roman names, and he's got tattoos." Leo pointed out the marks on Jason's arm. Then he gave Thalia the rundown about the other weird stuff that had happened: Boreas turning into Aquilon, Lycaon calling Jason a "child of Rome," and the wolves backing off when Jason spoke Latin to them. Thalia plucked her bowstring. "Latin. Zeus sometimes spoke Latin, the second time he stayed with Mom. Like I said, he seemed different, more formal." "You think he was in his Roman aspect?" Jason asked. "And that's why I think of myself as a child of Jupiter?" "Possibly," Thalia said. "I've never heard of something like that happening, but it might explain why you think in Roman terms, why you can speak Latin rather than Ancient Greek. That would make you unique. Still, it doesn't explain howyou've survived without Camp Half-Blood. A child of Zeus, or Jupiter, or whatever you want to call him-you would've been hounded by monsters. If you were on your own, you should've died years ago. I know I wouldn't have been able to survive without friends. You would've needed training, a safe haven-" "He wasn't alone," Leo blurted out. "We've heard about others like him." Thalia looked at him strangely. "What do you mean?" Leo told her about the slashed-up purple shirt in Medea's department store, and the story the Cyclopes told about the child of Mercury who spoke Latin. "Isn't there anywhere else for demigods?" Leo asked. "I mean besides Camp Half-Blood? Maybe some crazy Latin teacher has been abducting children of the gods or something, making them think like Romans." As soon as he said it, Leo realized how stupid the idea sounded. Thalia's dazzling blue eyes studied him intently, making him feel like a suspect in a lineup. "I've been all over the country," Thalia mused. "I've never seen evidence of a crazy Latin teacher, or demigods in purple shirts. Still _" Her voice trailed off, like she'd just had a troubling thought. "What?" Jason asked. Thalia shook her head. "I'll have to talk to the goddess. Maybe Artemis will guide us." "She's still talking to you?" Jason asked. "Most of the gods have gone silent." "Artemis follows her own rules," Thalia said. "She has to be careful not to let Zeus know, but she thinks Zeus is being ridiculous closing Olympus. She's the one who set us on the trail of Lycaon. She said we'd find a lead to a missing friend of ours." "Percy Jackson," Leo guessed. "The guy Annabeth is looking for." Thalia nodded, her face full of concern. Leo wondered if anyone had ever looked that worried all the times he'd disappeared. He kind of doubted it. "So what would Lycaon have to do with it?" Leo asked. "And how does it connect to us?" "We need to find out soon," Thalia admitted. "If your deadline is tomorrow, we're wasting time. Aeolus could tell you-" The white wolf appeared again at the doorway and yipped insistently. "I have to get moving." Thalia stood. "Otherwise I'll lose the other Hunters' trail. First, though, I'll take you to Aeolus's palace." "If you can't, it's okay," Jason said, though he sounded kind of distressed. "Oh, please." Thalia smiled and helped him up. "I haven't had a brother in years. I think I can stand a few minutes with you before you get annoying. Now, let's go!" WHEN LEO SAW HOW WELL PIPERAND HEDGE were being treated, he was thoroughly offended. He'd imagined them freezing their hindquarters off in the snow, but the Hunter Phoebe had set up this silver tent pavilion thing right outside the cave. How she'd done it so fast, Leo had no idea, but inside was a kerosene heater keeping themtoasty warm and a bunch of comfy throw pillows. Piper looked back to normal, decked out in a new parka, gloves, and camo pants like a Hunter. She and Hedge and Phoebe were kicking back, drinking hot chocolate. "Oh, no way," Leo said. "We've been sitting in a cave and you get the luxury tent? Somebody give me hypothermia. Iwant hot chocolate and a parka!" Phoebe sniffed. "Boys," she said, like it was the worst insult she could think of. "It's all right, Phoebe," Thalia said. "They'll need extra coats.And I think we can spare some chocolate." Phoebe grumbled, but soon Leo and Jason were also dressed in silvery winter clothes that were incredibly lightweight and warm. The hot chocolate was first-rate. "Cheers!" said Coach Hedge. He crunched down his plastic thermos cup. "That cannot be good for your intestines," Leo said. Thalia patted Piper on the back. "You up for moving?" Piper nodded. "Thanks to Phoebe, yeah. You guys are really good at this wilderness survival thing. I feel like I could run ten miles." Thalia winked at Jason. "She's tough for a child of Aphrodite. I like this one." "Hey, I could run ten miles too," Leo volunteered. "Tough Hephaestus kid here. Let's hit it." Naturally, Thalia ignored him. It took Phoebe exactly six seconds to break camp, which Leo could not believe. The tent self-collapsed into a square the size of a pack of chewing gum. Leo wanted to ask her for the blueprints, but they didn't have time. Thalia ran uphill through the snow, hugging a tiny little path on the side of the mountain, and soon Leo was regretting trying to look macho, because the Hunters left him in the dust. Coach Hedge leaped around like a happy mountain goat, coaxing them on like he used to do on track days at school. "Come on, Valdez! Pick up the pace! Let's chant. I've got a girl in Kalamazoo-" "Let's not," Thalia snapped. So they ran in silence. Leo fell in next to Jason at the back of the group. "How you doing, man?" Jason's expression was enough of an answer: Not good. "Thalia takes it so calmly," Jason said. "Like it's no big deal that I appeared. I didn't know what I was expecting, but _she's not like me. She seems so much more together." "Hey, she's not fighting amnesia," Leo said. "Plus, she's had more time to get used to this whole demigod thing. You fight monsters and talk to gods for a while, you probably get used to surprises." "Maybe," Jason said. "I just wish I understood what happened when I was two, why my mom got rid of me. Thalia ran away because of me." "Hey, whatever's happened, it wasn't your fault. And your sister is pretty cool. She's a lot like you." Jason took that in silence. Leo wondered if he'd said the right things. He wanted to make Jason feel better, but this was way outside his comfort zone. Leo wished he could reach inside his tool belt and pick just the right wrench to fix Jason's memory-maybe a little hammer-bonk the sticking spot and make everything run right. That would be a lot easier than trying to talk it through. Not good with organic life forms. Thanks for those inherited traits, Dad. He was so lost in thought, he didn't realize the Hunters had stopped. He slammed into Thalia and nearly sent them both down the side of the mountain the hard way. Fortunately, the Hunter was light on her feet. She steadied them both, then pointed up. "That," Leo choked, "is a really large rock." They stood near the summit of Pikes Peak. Below themthe world was blanketed in clouds. The air was so thin, Leo could hardly breathe. Night had set in, but a full moon shone and the stars were incredible. Stretching out to the north and south, peaks of other mountains rose from the clouds like islands-or teeth. But the real show was above them. Hovering in the sky, about a quarter mile away, was a massive free-floating island of glowing purple stone. It was hard to judge its size, but Leo figured it was at least as wide as a football stadium and just as tall. The sides were rugged cliffs, riddled with caves, and every once in a while a gust of wind burst out with a sound like a pipe organ blast. At the top of the rock, brass walls ringed some kind of a fortress. The only thing connecting Pikes Peak to the floating island was a narrow bridge of ice that glistened in the moonlight. Then Leo realized the bridge wasn't exactly ice, because it wasn't solid. As the winds changed direction, the bridge snaked around-blurring and thinning, in some places even breaking into a dotted line like the vapor trail of a plane. "We're not seriously crossing that," Leo said. Thalia shrugged. "I'm not a big fan of heights, I'll admit. But if you want to get to Aeolus's fortress, this is the only way." "Is the fortress always hanging there?" Piper asked. "Howcan people not notice it sitting on top of Pikes Peak?" "The Mist," Thalia said. "Still, mortals do notice it indirectly. Some days, Pikes Peak looks purple. People say it's a trick of the light, but actually it's the color of Aeolus's palace, reflecting off the mountain face." "It's enormous," Jason said. Thalia laughed. "You should see Olympus, little brother." "You're serious? You've been there?" Thalia grimaced as if it wasn't a good memory. "We should go across in two different groups. The bridge is fragile." "That's reassuring," Leo said. "Jason, can't you just fly us up there?" Thalia laughed. Then she seemed to realize Leo's question wasn't a joke. "Wait _ Jason, you can fly?" Jason gazed up at the floating fortress. "Well, sort of. More like I can control the winds. But the winds up here are so strong, I'm not sure I'd want to try. Thalia, you mean _ you can't fly?" For a second, Thalia looked genuinely afraid. Then she got her expression under control. Leo realized she was a lot more scared of heights than she was letting on. "Truthfully," she said, "I've never tried. Might be better if we stuck to the bridge." Coach Hedge tapped the ice vapor trail with his hoof, then jumped onto the bridge. Amazingly, it held his weight. "Easy! I'll go first. Piper, come on, girl. I'll give you a hand." "No, that's okay," Piper started to say, but the coach grabbed her hand and dragged her up the bridge. When they were about halfway, the bridge still seemed to be holding them just fine. Thalia turned to her Hunter friend. "Phoebe, I'll be back soon. Go find the others. Tell them I'm on my way." "You sure?" Phoebe narrowed her eyes at Leo and Jason, like they might kidnap Thalia or something. "It's fine," Thalia promised. Phoebe nodded reluctantly, then raced down the mountain path, the white wolves at her heels. "Jason, Leo, just be careful where you step," Thalia said. "It hardly ever breaks." "It hasn't met me yet," Leo muttered, but he and Jason led the way up the bridge. Halfway up, things went wrong, and of course it was Leo's fault. Piper and Hedge had already made it safely to the top and were waving at them, encouraging them to keep climbing, but Leo got distracted. He was thinking about bridges-how he would design something way more stable than this shifting ice vapor business if this were his palace. He was pondering braces and support columns. Then a sudden revelation stopped him in his tracks. "Why do they have a bridge?" he asked. Thalia frowned. "Leo, this isn't a good place to stop. What do you mean?" "They're wind spirits," Leo said. "Can't they fly?" "Yes, but sometimes they need a way to connect to the world below." "So the bridge isn't always here?" Leo asked. Thalia shook her head. "The wind spirits don't like to anchor to the earth, but sometimes it's necessary. Like now. They know you're coming." Leo's mind was racing. He was so excited he could almost feel his body's temperature rising. He couldn't quite put his thoughts into words, but he knew he was on to something important. "Leo?" Jason said. "What are you thinking?" "Oh, gods," Thalia said. "Keep moving. Look at your feet." Leo shuffled backward. With horror, he realized his body temperature reallywas rising, just as it had years ago at that picnic table under the pecan tree, when his anger had gotten away from him. Now, excitement was causing the reaction. His pants steamed in the cold air. His shoes were literally smoking, and the bridge didn't like it. The ice was thinning. "Leo, stop it," Jason warned. "You're going to melt it." "I'll try," Leo said. But his body was overheating on its own, running as fast as his thoughts. "Listen, Jason, what did Hera call you in that dream? She called you a bridge." "Leo, seriously, cool down," Thalia said. "I don't what you're talking about, but the bridge is-" "Just listen," Leo insisted. "If Jason is a bridge, what's he connecting? Maybe two different places that normally don't get along-like the air palace and the ground. You had to be somewhere before this, right? And Hera said you were an exchange." "An exchange." Thalia's eyes widened. "Oh, gods." Jason frowned. "What are you two talking about?" Thalia murmured something like a prayer. "I understand now whyArtemis sent me here. Jason-she told me to hunt for Lycaon and I would find a clue about Percy. You are the clue. Artemis wanted us to meet so I could hear your story." "I don't understand," he protested. "I don't have a story. I don't remember anything." "But Leo's right," Thalia said. "It's all connected. If we just knew where-" Leo snapped his fingers. "Jason, what did you call that place in your dream? That ruined house. The Wolf House?" Thalia nearly choked. "The Wolf House? Jason, why didn't you tell me that! That's where they're keeping Hera?" "You know where it is?" Jason asked. Then the bridge dissolved. Leo would've fallen to his death, but Jason grabbed his coat and pulled him to safety. The two of them scrambled up the bridge, and when they turned, Thalia was on the other side of a thirty-foot chasm. The bridge was continuing to melt. "Go!" Thalia shouted, backing down the bridge as it crumbled. "Find out where the giant is keeping Piper's dad. Save him! I'll take the Hunters to the Wolf House and hold it until you can get there. We can do both!" "But where is the Wolf House?" Jason shouted. "You know where it is, little brother!" She was so far away now that they could barely hear her voice over the wind. Leo was pretty sure she said: "I'll see you there. I promise." Then she turned and raced down the dissolving bridge. Leo and Jason had no time to stand around. They climbed for their lives, the ice vapor thinning under their feet. Several times, Jason grabbed Leo and used the winds to keep themaloft, but it was more like bungee jumping than flying. When they reached the floating island, Piper and Coach Hedge pulled them aboard just as the last of the vapor bridge vanished. They stood gasping for breath at the base of a stone stairway chiseled into the side of the cliff, leading up to the fortress. Leo looked back down. The top of Pikes Peak floated below them in a sea of clouds, but there was no sign of Thalia. And Leo had just burned their only exit. "What happened?" Piper demanded. "Leo, why are your clothes smoking?" "I got a little heated," he gasped. "Sorry, Jason. Honest. I didn't-" "It's all right," Jason said, but his expression was grim. "We've got less than twenty-four hours to rescue a goddess and Piper's dad. Let's go see the king of the winds." JASONHADFOUNDHIS SISTERAND lost her in less than an hour. As they climbed the cliffs of the floating island, he kept looking back, but Thalia was gone. Despite what she'd said about meeting him again, Jason wondered. She'd found a new family with the Hunters, and a new mother in Artemis. She seemed so confident and comfortable with her life, Jason wasn't sure if he'd ever be part of it. And she seemed so set on finding her friend Percy. Had she ever searched for Jason that way? Not fair, he told himself. She thought you were dead. He could barely tolerate what she'd said about their mom. It was almost like Thalia had handed him a baby-a really loud, ugly baby-and said, Here, this is yours. Carry it. He didn't want to carry it. He didn't want to look at it or claim it. He didn't want to know that he had an unstable mother who'd gotten rid of him to appease a goddess. No wonder Thalia had run away. Then he remembered the Zeus cabin at Camp Half-Blood -that tiny little alcove Thalia had used as a bunk, out of sight from the glowering statue of the sky god. Their dad wasn't much of a bargain, either. Jason understood why Thalia had renounced that part of her life too, but he was still resentful. He couldn't be so lucky. He was left holding the bag -literally. The golden backpack of winds was strapped over his shoulders. The closer they got to Aeolus's palace, the heavier the bag got. The winds struggled, rumbling and bumping around. The only one who seemed in a good mood was Coach Hedge. He kept bounding up the slippery staircase and trotting back down. "Come on, cupcakes! Only a few thousand more steps!" As they climbed, Leo and Piper left Jason in his silence. Maybe they could sense his bad mood. Piper kept glancing back, worried, as if he were the one who'd almost died of hypothermia rather than she. Or maybe she was thinking about Thalia's idea. They'd told her what Thalia had said on the bridge-how they could save both her dad and Hera-but Jason didn't really understand how they were going to do that, and he wasn't sure if the possibility had made Piper more hopeful or just more anxious. Leo kept swatting his own legs, checking for signs that his pants were on fire. He wasn't steaming anymore, but the incident on the ice bridge had really freaked Jason out. Leo hadn't seemed to realize that he had smoke coming out his ears and flames dancing through his hair. If Leo started spontaneously combusting every time he got excited, they were going to have a tough time taking him anywhere. Jason imagined trying to get food at a restaurant. I'll have a cheeseburger and-Ahhh! My friend's on fire! Get me a bucket! Mostly, though, Jason worried about what Leo had said. Jason didn't want to be a bridge, or an exchange, or anything else. He just wanted to know where he'd come from. And Thalia had looked so unnerved when Leo mentioned the burned-out house in his dreams-the place the wolf Lupa had told him was his starting point. How did Thalia know that place, and why did she assume Jason could find it? The answer seemed close. But the nearer Jason got to it, the less it cooperated, like the winds on his back. Finally they arrived at the top of the island. Bronze walls marched all the way around the fortress grounds, though Jason couldn't imagine who would possibly attack this place. Twentyfoot-high gates opened for them, and a road of polished purple stone led up to the main citadel-a white-columned rotunda, Greek style, like one of the monuments in Washington, D.C. -except for the cluster of satellite dishes and radio towers on the roof. "That's bizarre," Piper said. "Guess you can't get cable on a floating island," Leo said. "Dang, check this guy's front yard." The rotunda sat in the center of a quarter-mile circle. The grounds were amazing in a scary way. They were divided into four sections like big pizza slices, each one representing a season. The section on their right was an icy waste, with bare trees and a frozen lake. Snowmen rolled across the landscape as the wind blew, so Jason wasn't sure if they were decorations or alive. To their left was an autumn park with gold and red trees. Mounds of leaves blew into patterns-gods, people, animals that ran after each other before scattering back into leaves. In the distance, Jason could see two more areas behind the rotunda. One looked like a green pasture with sheep made out of clouds. The last section was a desert where tumbleweeds scratched strange patterns in the sand like Greek letters, smiley faces, and a huge advertisement that read: watch aeolus nightly! "One section for each of the four wind gods," Jason guessed. "Four cardinal directions." "I'm loving that pasture." Coach Hedge licked his lips. "You guys mind-" "Go ahead," Jason said. He was actually relieved to send the satyr off. It would be hard enough getting onAeolus's good side without Coach Hedge waving his club and screaming, "Die!" While the satyr ran off to attack springtime, Jason, Leo, and Piper walked down the road to the steps of the palace. They passed through the front doors into a white marble foyer decorated with purple banners that read olympian weather channel, and some that just read ow! "Hello!" A woman floated up to them. Literally floated. She was pretty in that elfish way Jason associated with nature spirits at Camp Half-Blood-petite, slightly pointy ears, and an ageless face that could've been sixteen or thirty. Her brown eyes twinkled cheerfully. Even though there was no wind, her dark hair blew in slow motion, shampoo-commercial style. Her white gown billowed around her like parachute material. Jason couldn't tell if she had feet, but if so, they didn't touch the floor. She had a white tablet computer in her hand. "Are you fromLord Zeus?" she asked. "We've been expecting you." Jason tried to respond, but it was a little hard to think straight, because he'd realized the woman was see-through. Her shape faded in and out like she was made of fog. "Are you a ghost?" he asked. Right away he knew he'd insulted her. The smile turned into a pout. "I'm an aura, sir. A wind nymph, as you might expect, working for the lord of the winds. My name is Mellie. We don't have ghosts." Piper came to the rescue. "No, of course you don't! My friend simply mistook you for Helen of Troy, the most beautiful mortal of all time. It's an easy mistake." Wow, she was good. The compliment seemed a little over the top, but Mellie the aura blushed. "Oh _ well, then. So you are from Zeus?" "Er," Jason said, "I'm the son of Zeus, yeah." "Excellent! Please, right this way." She led them through some security doors into another lobby, consulting her tablet as she floated. She didn't look where she was going, but apparently it didn't matter as she drifted straight through a marble column with no problem. "We're out of prime time now, so that's good," she mused. "I can fit you in right before his 11:12 spot." "Um, okay," Jason said. The lobby was a pretty distracting place. Winds blasted around them, so Jason felt like he was pushing through an invisible crowd. Doors blew open and slammed by themselves. The things Jason could see were just as bizarre. Paper airplanes of all different sizes and shapes sped around, and other wind nymphs, aurai, would occasionally pluck them out of the air, unfold and read them, then toss them back into the air, where the planes would refold themselves and keep flying. An ugly creature fluttered past. She looked like a mix between an old lady and a chicken on steroids. She had a wrinkled face with black hair tied in a hairnet, arms like a human plus wings like a chicken, and a fat, feathered body with talons for feet. It was amazing she could fly at all. She kept drifting around and bumping into things like a parade balloon. "Not an aura?" Jason asked Mellie as the creature wobbled by. Mellie laughed. "That's a harpy, of course. Our, ah, ugly stepsisters, I suppose you would say. Don't you have harpies on Olympus? They're spirits of violent gusts, unlike us aurai. We're all gentle breezes." She batted her eyes at Jason. "'Course you are," he said. "So," Piper prompted, "you were taking us to see Aeolus?" Mellie led them through a set of doors like an airlock. Above the interior door, a green light blinked. "We have a few minutes before he starts," Mellie said cheerfully. "He probably won't kill you if we go in now. Come along!" JASON'S JAW DROPPED. THE CENTRAL SECTION of Aeolus's fortress was as big as a cathedral, with a soaring domed roof covered in silver. Television equipment floated randomly through the air -cameras, spotlights, set pieces, potted plants. And there was no floor. Leo almost fell into the chasm before Jason pulled him back. "Holy-!" Leo gulped. "Hey, Mellie. A little warning next time!" An enormous circular pit plunged into the heart of the mountain. It was probably half a mile deep, honeycombed with caves. Some of the tunnels probably led straight outside. Jason remembered seeing winds blast out of them when they'd been on Pikes Peak. Other caves were sealed with some glistening material like glass or wax. The whole cavern bustled with harpies, aurai, and paper airplanes, but for someone who couldn't fly, it would be a very long, very fatal fall. "Oh, my," Mellie gasped. "I'm so sorry." She unclipped a walkie-talkie from somewhere inside her robes and spoke into it: "Hello, sets? Is that Nuggets? Hi, Nuggets. Could we get a floor in the main studio, please? Yes, a solid one. Thanks." A few seconds later, an army of harpies rose from the pit -three dozen or so demon chicken ladies, all carrying squares of various building material. They went to work hammering and gluing-and using large quantities of duct tape, which didn't reassure Jason. In no time there was a makeshift floor snaking out over the chasm. It was made of plywood, marble blocks, carpet squares, wedges of grass sod -just about anything. "That can't be safe," Jason said. "Oh, it is!" Mellie assured him. "The harpies are very good. " Easy for her to say. She just drifted across without touching the floor, but Jason decided he had the best chance at surviving, since he could fly, so he stepped out first. Amazingly, the floor held. Piper gripped his hand and followed him. "If I fall, you're catching me." "Uh, sure." Jason hoped he wasn't blushing. Leo stepped out next. "You're catching me, too, Superman. But I ain't holding your hand." Mellie led them toward the middle of the chamber, where a loose sphere of flat-panel video screens floated around a kind of control center.A man hovered inside, checking monitors and reading paper airplane messages. The man paid them no attention as Mellie brought themforward. She pushed a forty-two-inch Sony out of their way and led them into the control area. Leo whistled. "I got to get a room like this." The floating screens showed all sorts of television programs. Some Jason recognized-news broadcasts, mostly -but some programs looked a little strange: gladiators fighting, demigods battling monsters. Maybe they were movies, but they looked more like reality shows. At the far end of the sphere was a silky blue backdrop like a cinema screen, with cameras and studio lights floating around it. The man in the center was talking into an earpiece phone. He had a remote control in each hand and was pointing themat various screens, seemingly at random. He wore a business suit that looked like the sky-blue mostly, but dappled with clouds that changed and darkened and moved across the fabric. He looked like he was in his sixties, with a shock of white hair, but he had a ton of stage makeup on, and that smooth plastic-surgery look to his face, so he appeared not really young, not really old, just wrong-like a Ken doll someone had halfway melted in a microwave. His eyes darted back and forth from screen to screen, like he was trying to absorb everything at once. He muttered things into his phone, and his mouth kept twitching. He was either amused, or crazy, or both. Mellie floated toward him. "Ah, sir, Mr. Aeolus, these demigods-" "Hold it!" He held up a hand to silence her, then pointed at one of the screens. "Watch!" It was one of those storm-chaser programs, where insane thrill-seekers drive after tornados. As Jason watched, a Jeep plowed straight into a funnel cloud and got tossed into the sky. Aeolus shrieked with delight. "The Disaster Channel. People do that on purpose!" He turned toward Jason with a mad grin. "Isn't that amazing? Let's watch it again." "Um, sir," Mellie said, "this is Jason, son of-" "Yes, yes, I remember," Aeolus said. "You're back. How did it go?" Jason hesitated. "Sorry? I think you've mistaken me-" "No, no, Jason Grace, aren't you? It was-what-last year? You were on your way to fight a sea monster, I believe." "I-I don't remember." Aelous laughed. "Must not have been a very good sea monster! No, I remember every hero who's ever come to me for aid. Odysseus-gods, he docked at my island for a month! At least you only stayed a few days. Now, watch this video. These ducks get sucked straight into-" "Sir," Mellie interrupted. "Two minutes to air." "Air!" Aeolus exclaimed. "I love air. How do I look? Makeup!" Immediately a small tornado of brushes, blotters, and cotton balls descended on Aeolus. They blurred across his face in a cloud of flesh-tone smoke until his coloration was even more gruesome than before. Wind swirled through his hair and left it sticking up like a frosted Christmas tree. "Mr. Aeolus." Jason slipped off the golden backpack. "We brought you these rogue storm spirits." "Did you!" Aeolus looked at the bag like it was a gift from a fan-something he really didn't want. "Well, how nice." Leo nudged him, and Jason offered the bag. "Boreas sent us to capture them for you. We hope you'll accept them and stop-you know-ordering demigods to be killed." Aeolus laughed, and looked incredulously at Mellie. "Demigods be killed-did I order that?" Mellie checked her computer tablet. "Yes, sir, fifteenth of September. 'Storm spirits released by the death of Typhon, demigods to be held responsible,' etc_ yes, a general order for them all to be killed." "Oh, pish," Aeolus said. "I was just grumpy. Rescind that order, Mellie, and um, who's on guard duty-Teriyaki?-Teri, take these storm spirits down to cell block Fourteen E, will you?" A harpy swooped out of nowhere, snatched the golden bag, and spiraled into the abyss. Aeolus grinned at Jason. "Now, sorry about that kill-onsight business. But gods, I really was mad, wasn't I?" His face suddenly darkened, and his suit did the same, the lapels flashing with lightning. "You know _ I remember now. Almost seemed like a voice was telling me to give that order. A little cold tingle on the back of my neck." Jason tensed.A cold tingle on the back of his neck _ Why did that sound so familiar? "A _ um, voice in your head, sir?" "Yes. How odd. Mellie, should we kill them?" "No, sir," she said patiently. "They just brought us the stormspirits, which makes everything all right." "Of course." Aeolus laughed. "Sorry. Mellie, let's send the demigods something nice.A box of chocolates, perhaps." "A box of chocolates to every demigod in the world, sir?" "No, too expensive. Never mind. Wait, it's time! I'm on!" Aeolus flew off toward the blue screen as newscast music started to play. Jason looked at Piper and Leo, who seemed just as confused as he was. "Mellie," he said, "is he _ always like that?" She smiled sheepishly. "Well, you know what they say. If you don't like his mood, wait five minutes. That expression 'whichever way the wind blows'-that was based on him." "And that thing about the sea monster," Jason said. "Was I here before?" Mellie blushed. "I'm sorry, I don't remember. I'm Mr. Aeolus's new assistant. I've been with him longer than most, but still-not that long." "How long do his assistants usually last?" Piper asked. " Oh _" Mellie thought for a moment. "I've been doing this for _ twelve hours?" A voice blared from floating speakers: "And now, weather every twelve minutes! Here's your forecaster for Olympian Weather-the OW! channel-Aeolus!" Lights blazed on Aeolus, who was now standing in front of the blue screen. His smile was unnaturally white, and he looked like he'd had so much caffeine his face was about to explode. "Hello, Olympus! Aeolus, master of the winds here, with weather every twelve! We'll have a low-pressure systemmoving over Florida today, so expect milder temperatures since Demeter wishes to spare the citrus farmers!" He gestured at the blue screen, but when Jason checked the monitors, he saw that a digital image was being projected behind Aeolus, so it looked like he was standing in front of a U.S. map with animated smiley suns and frowny storm clouds. "Along the eastern seaboard-oh, hold on." He tapped his earpiece. "Sorry, folks! Poseidon is angry with Miami today, so it looks like that Florida freeze is back on! Sorry, Demeter. Over in the Midwest, I'm not sure what St. Louis did to offend Zeus, but you can expect winter storms! Boreas himself is being called down to punish the area with ice. Bad news, Missouri! No, wait. Hephaestus feels sorry for central Missouri, so you all will have much more moderate temperatures and sunny skies." Aeolus kept going like that-forecasting each area of the country and changing his prediction two or three times as he got messages over his earpiece-the gods apparently putting in orders for various winds and weather. "This can't be right," Jason whispered. "Weather isn't this random." Mellie smirked. "And how often are the mortal weathermen right? They talk about fronts and air pressure and moisture, but the weather surprises them all the time. At least Aeolus tells us why it's so unpredictable. Very hard job, trying to appease all the gods at once. It's enough to drive anyone _" She trailed off, but Jason knew what she meant. Mad. Aeolus was completely mad. "And that's the weather," Aeolus concluded. "See you in twelve minutes, because I'm sure it'll change!" The lights shut off, the video monitors went back to random coverage, and just for a moment, Aeolus's face sagged with weariness. Then he seemed to remember he had guests, and he put a smile back on. "So, you brought me some rogue storm spirits," Aeolus said. "I suppose _ thanks! And did you want something else? I assume so. Demigods always do." Mellie said, "Um, sir, this is Zeus's son." "Yes, yes. I know that. I said I remembered him frombefore." "But, sir, they're here from Olympus." Aeolus looked stunned. Then he laughed so abruptly, Jason almost jumped into the chasm. "You mean you're here on behalf of your father this time? Finally! I knewthey would send someone to renegotiate my contract!" "Um, what?" Jason asked. "Oh, thank goodness!" Aeolus sighed with relief. "It's been what, three thousand years since Zeus made me master of the winds. Not that I'm ungrateful, of course! But really, my contract is so vague. Obviously I'm immortal, but 'master of the winds.' What does that mean? Am I a nature spirit? A demigod? A god? Iwant to be god of the winds, because the benefits are so much better. Can we start with that?" Jason looked at his friends, mystified. "Dude," Leo said, "you think we're here to promote you?" "You are, then?" Aeolus grinned. His business suit turned completely blue-not a cloud in the fabric. "Marvelous! I mean, I think I've shown quite a bit of initiative with the weather channel, eh? And of course I'm in the press all the time. So many books have been written about me: Into Thin Air, Up in theAir, Gone with the Wind-" "Er, I don't think those are about you," Jason said, before he noticed Mellie shaking her head. "Nonsense," Aeolus said. "Mellie, they're biographies of me, aren't they?" "Absolutely, sir," she squeaked. "There, you see? I don't read. Who has time? But obviously the mortals love me. So, we'll change my official title to god of the winds. Then, about salary and staff-" "Sir," Jason said, "we're not from Olympus." Aeolus blinked. "But-" "I'm the son of Zeus, yes," Jason said, "but we're not here to negotiate your contract. We're on a quest and we need your help." Aeolus's expression hardened. "Like last time? Like every hero who comes here? Demigods! It's always about you, isn't it?" "Sir, please, I don't remember last time, but if you helped me once before-" "I'm always helping! Well, sometimes I'm destroying, but mostly I'm helping, and sometimes I'm asked to do both at the same time! Why,Aeneas, the first of your kind-" "My kind?" Jason asked. "You mean, demigods?" "Oh, please!" Aeolus said. "I mean your line of demigods. You know, Aeneas, son of Venus-the only surviving hero of Troy. When the Greeks burned down his city, he escaped to Italy, where he founded the kingdom that would eventually become Rome, blah, blah, blah. That's what Imeant." "I don't get it," Jason admitted. Aeolus rolled his eyes. "The point being, I was thrown in the middle of that conflict, too! Juno calls up: 'Oh, Aeolus, destroy Aeneas's ships for me. I don't like him.' Then Neptune says, 'No, you don't! That's my territory. Calm the winds.' Then Juno is like, 'No, wreck his ships, or I'll tell Jupiter you're uncooperative!' Do you think it's easy juggling requests like that?" "No," Jason said. "I guess not." "And don't get me started on Amelia Earhart! I'm still getting angry calls from Olympus about knocking her out of the sky!" "We just want information," Piper said in her most calming voice. "We hear you know everything." Aeolus straightened his lapels and looked slightly mollified. "Well _ that's true, of course. For instance, I knowthat this business here"-he waggled his fingers at the three of them-"this harebrained scheme of Juno's to bring you all together is likely to end in bloodshed. As for you, Piper McLean, I know your father is in serious trouble." He held out his hand, and a scrap of paper fluttered into his grasp. It was a photo of Piper with a guy who must've been her dad. His face did look familiar. Jason was pretty sure he'd seen him in some movies. Piper took the photo. Her hands were shaking. "This-this is from his wallet." "Yes," Aeolus said. "All things lost in the wind eventually come to me. The photo blew away when the Earthborn captured him." "The what?" Piper asked. Aeolus waved aside the question and narrowed his eyes at Leo. "Now, you, son of Hephaestus _ yes, I see your future." Another paper fell into the wind god's hands-an old tattered drawing done in crayons. Leo took it as if it might be coated in poison. He staggered backward. "Leo?" Jason said. "What is it?" "Something I-I drew when I was a kid." He folded it quickly and put it in his coat. "It's _ yeah, it's nothing." Aeolus laughed. "Really? Just the key to your success! Now, where were we? Ah, yes, you wanted information. Are you sure about that? Sometimes information can be dangerous." He smiled at Jason like he was issuing a challenge. Behind him, Mellie shook her head in warning. "Yeah," Jason said. "We need to find the lair of Enceladus." Aeolus's smile melted. "The giant? Why would you want to go there? He's horrible! He doesn't even watch my program!" Piper held up the photo. "Aeolus, he's got my father. We need to rescue him and find out where Hera is being held captive." "Now, that's impossible," Aeolus said. "Even I can't see that, and believe me, I've tried. There's a veil of magic over Hera's location-very strong, impossible to locate." "She's at a place called the Wolf House," Jason said. "Hold on!" Aelous put a hand to his forehead and closed his eyes. "I'm getting something! Yes, she's at a place called the Wolf House! Sadly, I don't know where that is." "Enceladus does," Piper persisted. "If you help us find him, we could get the location of the goddess-" "Yeah," Leo said, catching on. "And if we save her, she'd be really grateful to you-" "And Zeus might promote you," Jason finished. Aeolus's eyebrows crept up. "A promotion-and all you want from me is the giant's location?" "Well, if you could get us there, too," Jason amended, "that would be great." Mellie clapped her hands in excitement. "Oh, he could do that! He often sends helpful winds-" "Mellie, quiet!" Aeolus snapped. "I have half a mind to fire you for letting these people in under false pretenses." Her face paled. "Yes, sir. Sorry, sir." "It wasn't her fault," Jason said. "But about that help _" Aelous tilted his head as if thinking. Then Jason realized the wind lord was listening to voices in his earpiece. "Well _ Zeus approves," Aeolus muttered. "He says _ he says it would be better if you could avoid saving her until after the weekend, because he has a big party planned-Ow! That's Aphrodite yelling at him, reminding him that the solstice starts at dawn. She says I should help you. And Hephaestus_yes. Hmm. Very rare they agree on anything. Hold on _" Jason smiled at his friends. Finally, they were having some good luck. Their godly parents were standing up for them. Back toward the entrance, Jason heard a loud belch. Coach Hedge waddled in from the lobby, grass all over his face. Mellie saw him coming across the makeshift floor and caught her breath. "Who is that?" Jason stifled a cough. "That? That's just Coach Hedge. Uh, Gleeson Hedge. He's our _" Jason wasn't sure what to call him: teacher, friend, problem? "Our guide." "He's so goatly," Mellie murmured. Behind her, Piper poofed out her cheeks, pretending to vomit. "What's up, guys?" Hedge trotted over. "Wow, nice place. Oh! Sod squares." "Coach, you just ate," Jason said. "And we're using the sod as a floor. This is, ah, Mellie-" " A n aura." Hedge smiled winningly. "Beautiful as a summer breeze." Mellie blushed. "And Aeolus here was just about to help us," Jason said. "Yes," the wind lord muttered. "It seems so. You'll find Enceladus on Mount Diablo." "Devil Mountain?" Leo asked. "That doesn't sound good." "Iremember that place!" Piper said. "Iwent there once with my dad. It's just east of San Francisco Bay." "The Bay Area again?" The coach shook his head. "Not good. Not good at all." "Now _" Aeolus began to smile. "As to getting you there-" Suddenly his face went slack. He bent over and tapped his earpiece as if it were malfunctioning. When he straightened again, his eyes were wild. Despite the makeup, he looked like an old man-an old, very frightened man. "She hasn't spoke to me for centuries. I can't-yes, yes I understand." He swallowed, regarding Jason as if he had suddenly turned into a giant cockroach. "I'm sorry, son of Jupiter. Neworders. You all have to die." Mellie squeaked. "But-but, sir! Zeus said to help them. Aphrodite, Hephaestus-" "Mellie!" Aeolus snapped. "Your job is already on the line. Besides, there are some orders that transcend even the wishes of the gods, especially when it comes to the forces of nature." "Whose orders?" Jason said. "Zeus will fire you if you don't help us!" "I doubt it." Aeolus flicked his wrist, and far below them, a cell door opened in the pit. Jason could hear storm spirits screaming out of it, spiraling up toward them, howling for blood. "Even Zeus understands the order of things," Aeolus said. "And if she is waking-by all the gods-she cannot be denied. Good-bye, heroes. I'm terribly sorry, but I'll have to make this quick. I'm back on the air in four minutes." Jason summoned his sword. Coach Hedge pulled out his club. Mellie the aura yelled, "No!" She dived at their feet just as the storm spirits hit with hurricane force, blasting the floor to pieces, shredding the carpet samples and marble and linoleum into what should've been lethal projectiles, had Mellie's robes not spread out like a shield and absorbed the brunt of the impact. The five of themfell into the pit, and Aeolus screamed above them, "Mellie, you are so fired!" "Quick," Mellie yelled. "Son of Zeus, do you have any power over the air?" "A little!" "Then help me, or you're all dead!" Mellie grabbed his hand, and an electric charge went through Jason's arm. He understood what she needed. They had to control their fall and head for one of the open tunnels. The storm spirits were following them down, closing rapidly, bringing with them a cloud of deadly shrapnel. Jason grabbed Piper's hand. "Group hug!" Hedge, Leo, and Piper tried to huddle together, hanging on to Jason and Mellie as they fell. "This is NOT GOOD!" Leo yelled. "Bring it on, gas bags!" Hedge yelled up at the stormspirits. "I'll pulverize you!" "He's magnificent," Mellie sighed. "Concentrate?" Jason prompted. "Right!" she said. They channeled the wind so their fall became more of a tumble into the nearest open chute. Still, they slammed into the tunnel at painful speed and went rolling over each other down a steep vent that was not designed for people. There was no way they could stop. Mellie's robes billowed around her. Jason and the others clung to her desperately, and they began to slow down, but the storm spirits were screaming into the tunnel behind them. "Can't-hold-long," Mellie warned. "Stay together! When the winds hit-" "You're doing great, Mellie," Hedge said. "My own mama was an aura, you know. She couldn't have done better herself." "Iris-message me?" Mellie pleaded. Hedge winked. "Could you guys plan your date later?" Piper screamed. "Look!" Behind them, the tunnel was turning dark. Jason could feel his ears pop as the pressure built. "Can't hold them," Mellie warned. "But I'll try to shield you, do you one more favor." "Thanks, Mellie," Jason said. "I hope you get a new job." She smiled, and then dissolved, wrapping them in a warm gentle breeze. Then the real winds hit, shooting them into the sky so fast, Jason blacked out. PIPERDREAMEDSHEWASONTHEWilderness School dorm roof. The desert night was cold, but she'd brought blankets, and with Jason next to her, she didn't need any more warmth. The air smelled of sage and burning mesquite. On the horizon, the Spring Mountains loomed like jagged black teeth, the dim glow of Las Vegas behind them. The stars were so bright, Piper had been afraid they wouldn't be able to see the meteor shower. She didn't want Jason to think she'd dragged him up here on false pretenses. (Even though her pretenses had been totally false.) But the meteors did not disappoint. One streaked across the sky almost every minute-a line of white, yellow, or blue fire. Piper was sure her Grandpa Tom would have some Cherokee myth to explain them, but at the moment she was busy creating her own story. Jason took her hand-finally-and pointed as two meteors skipped across the atmosphere and formed a cross. "Wow," he said. "I can't believe Leo didn't want to see this." "Actually, I didn't invite him," Piper said casually. Jason smiled. "Oh, yeah?" "Mm-hmm. You ever feel like three would be a crowd?" "Yeah," Jason admitted. "Like right now. You know howmuch trouble we'd get in if we got caught up here?" "Oh, I'd make up something," Piper said. "I can be very persuasive. So you want to dance, or what?" He laughed. His eyes were amazing, and his smile was even better in the starlight. "With no music. At night. On a rooftop. Sounds dangerous." "I'm a dangerous girl." "That, I can believe." He stood and offered her his hand. They slow danced a few steps, but it quickly turned into a kiss. Piper almost couldn't kiss him again, because she was too busy smiling. Then her dream changed-or maybe she was dead in the Underworld-because she found herself back in Medea's department store. "Please let this be a dream," she murmured, "and not my eternal punishment." "No, dear," said a woman's honey-sweet voice. "No punishment." Piper turned, afraid she'd see Medea, but a different woman stood next to her, browsing through the fifty-percent-off rack. The woman was gorgeous-shoulder-length hair, a graceful neck, perfect features, and an amazing figure tucked into jeans and a snowy white top. Piper had seen her share of actresses-most of her dad's dates were knockout beautiful-but this lady was different. She was elegant without trying, fashionable without effort, stunning without makeup. After seeing Aeolus with his silly face-lifts and cosmetics, Piper thought this woman looked even more astonishing. There was nothing artificial about her. Yet as Piper watched, the woman's appearance changed. Piper couldn't decide the color of her eyes, or the exact color of her hair. The woman became more and more beautiful, as if her image were aligning itself to Piper's thoughts-getting as close as possible to Piper's ideal of beauty. "Aphrodite," Piper said. "Mom?" The goddess smiled. "You're only dreaming, my sweet. If anyone wonders, Iwasn't here. Okay?" "I-" Piper wanted to ask a thousand questions, but they all crowded together in her head. Aphrodite held up a turquoise dress. Piper thought it looked awesome, but the goddess made a face. "This isn't my color, is it? Pity, it's cute. Medea really does have some lovely things here." "This-this building exploded," Piper stammered. "I saw it. " "Yes," Aphrodite agreed. "I suppose that's why everything's on sale. Just a memory, now. And I'm sorry to pull you out of your other dream. Much more pleasant, I know." Piper's face burned. She didn't know whether she was more angry or embarrassed, but mostly she felt hollow with disappointment. "It wasn't real. It never even happened. So why do Iremember it so vividly?" Aphrodite smiled. "Because you are my daughter, Piper. You see possibilities much more vividly than others. You see wha t coul d be. And it still might be-don't give up. Unfortunately-" The goddess gestured around the department store. "You have other trials to face, first. Medea will be back, along with many other enemies. The Doors of Death have opened." "What do you mean?" Aphrodite winked at her. "You're a smart one, Piper. You know." A cold feeling settled over her. "The sleeping woman, the one Medea and Midas called their patron. She's managed to open a new entrance from the Underworld. She's letting the dead escape back into the world." "Mmm. And not just a n y dead. The worst, the most powerful, the ones most likely to hate the gods." "The monsters are coming back from Tartarus the same way," Piper guessed. "That's why they don't stay disintegrated." "Yes. Their patron, as you call her, has a special relationship with Tartarus, the spirit of the pit." Aphrodite held up a gold sequined top. "No _ this would make me look ridiculous." Piper laughed uneasily. "You? You can't look anything but perfect." "You're sweet," Aphrodite said. "But beauty is about finding the right fit, the most natural fit. To be perfect, you have to feel perfect about yourself-avoid trying to be something you're not. For a goddess, that's especially hard. We can change so easily." "My dad thought you were perfect." Piper's voice quavered. "He never got over you." Aphrodite's gaze became distant. "Yes _ Tristan. Oh, he was amazing. So gentle and kind, funny and handsome. Yet he had so much sadness inside." "Could we please not talk about him in the past tense?" "I'm sorry, dear. I didn't want to leave your father, of course. It's always so hard, but it was for the best. If he had realized who I actually was-" "Wait-he didn't knowyou were a goddess?" "Of course not." Aphrodite sounded offended. "I wouldn't do that to him. For most mortals, that's simply too hard to accept. It can ruin their lives! Ask your friend Jason -lovelyboy, by the way. His poor mother was destroyed when she found out she'd fallen in love with Zeus. No, it was much better Tristan believed that I was a mortal woman who left himwithout explanation. Better a bittersweet memory than an immortal, unattainable goddess. Which brings me to an important matter _" She opened her hand and showed Piper a glowing glass vial of pink liquid. "This is one of Medea's kinder mixtures. It erases only recent memories. When you save your father, if you can save him, you should give him this." Piper couldn't believe what she was hearing. "You want me to dope my dad? You want me to make him forget what he's been through?" Aphrodite held up the vial. The liquid cast a pink glow over her face. "Your father acts confident, Piper, but he walks a fine line between two worlds. He's worked his whole life to deny the old stories about gods and spirits, yet he fears those stories might be real. He fears that he's shut off an important part of himself, and someday it will destroy him. Now he's been captured by a giant. He's living a nightmare. Even if he survives _ if he has to spend the rest of his life with those memories, knowing that gods and spirits walk the earth, it will shatter him. That's what our enemy hopes for. She will break him, and thus break your spirit." Piper wanted to shout that Aphrodite was wrong. Her dad was the strongest person she knew. Piper would never take his memories the way Hera had taken Jason's. But somehow she couldn't stay angry with Aphrodite. She remembered what her dad had said months ago, at the beach at Big Sur: If I really believed in Ghost Country, or animal spirits, or Greek gods... I don't think I could sleep at night. I'd always be looking for somebody to blame. Now Piper wanted someone to blame, too. "Who is she?" Piper demanded. "The one controlling the giants?" Aphrodite pursed her lips. She moved to the next rack, which held battered armor and ripped togas, but Aphrodite looked through them as if they were designer outfits. "You have a strong will," she mused. "I'm never given much credit among the gods. My children are laughed at. They're dismissed as conceited and shallow." "Some of them are." Aphrodite laughed. "Granted. Perhaps I'm conceited and shallow, too, sometimes. A girl has to indulge. Oh, this is nice." She picked up a burned and stained bronze breastplate and held it up for Piper to see. "No?" "No," Piper said. "Are you going to answer my question?" "Patience, my sweet," the goddess said. "My point is that love is the most powerful motivator in the world. It spurs mortals to greatness. Their noblest, bravest acts are done for love." Piper pulled out her dagger and studied its reflective blade. "Like Helen starting the Trojan War?" "Ah, Katoptris." Aphrodite smiled. "I'm glad you found it. I get so much flack for that war, but honestly, Paris and Helen were a cute couple. And the heroes of that war are immortal now-at least in the memories of men. Love is powerful, Piper. It can bring even the gods to their knees. I told this to my son Aeneas when he escaped from Troy. He thought he had failed. He thought he was a loser! But he traveled to Italy-" "And became the forebear of Rome." "Exactly. You see, Piper, my children can be quite powerful. You can be quite powerful, because my lineage is unique. I amcloser to the beginning of creation than any other Olympian." Piper struggled to remember about Aphrodite's birth. "Didn't you _ rise from the sea? Standing on a seashell?" The goddess laughed. "That painter Botticelli had quite an imagination. I never stood on a seashell, thank you very much. But yes, I rose from the sea. The first beings to rise fromChaos were the Earth and Sky-Gaea and Ouranos. When their son the Titan Kronos killed Ouranos-" "By chopping him to pieces with a scythe," Piper remembered. Aphrodite wrinkled her nose. "Yes. The pieces of Ouranos fell into the sea. His immortal essence created sea foam. And from that foam-" "You were born. Iremember now. So you're-" "The last child of Ouranos, who was greater than the gods or the Titans. So, in a strange way, I'm the eldest Olympian god. As I said, love is a powerful force. And you, my daughter, are much more than a pretty face. Which is why you already know who is waking the giants, and who has the power to open doors into the deepest parts of the earth." Aphrodite waited, as if she could sense Piper slowly putting together the pieces of a puzzle, which made a dreadful picture. "Gaea," Piper said. "The earth itself. That's our enemy." She hoped Aphrodite would say no, but the goddess kept her eyes on the rack of tattered armor. "She has slumbered for eons, but she is slowly waking. Even asleep, she is powerful, but once she wakes _ we will be doomed. You must defeat the giants before that happens, and lull Gaea back into her slumber. Otherwise the rebellion has only begun. The dead will continue to rise. Monsters will regenerate with even greater speed. The giants will lay waste to the birthplace of the gods. And if they do that, all civilization will burn." "But Gaea? Mother Earth?" "Do not underestimate her," Aphrodite warned. "She is a cruel deity. She orchestrated Ouranos's death. Sh e gave Kronos the sickle and urged him to kill his own father. While the Titans ruled the world, she slumbered in peace. But when the gods overthrew them, Gaea woke again in all her anger and gave birth to a new race-the giants-to destroy Olympus once and for all." "And it's happening again," Piper said. "The rise of the giants." Aphrodite nodded. "Now you know. What will you do?" "Me?" Piper clenched her fists. "What am I supposed to do? Put on a pretty dress and sweet-talk Gaea into going back to sleep?" "I wish that would work," Aphrodite said. "But no, you will have to find your own strengths, and fight for what you love. Like my favored ones, Helen and Paris. Like my sonAeneas." "Helen and Paris died," Piper said. "And Aeneas became a hero," the goddess countered. "The first great hero of Rome. The result will depend on you, Piper, but Iwill tell you this: The seven greatest demigods must be gathered to defeat the giants, and that effort will not succeed without you. When the two sides meet _ you will be the mediator. You will determine whether there is friendship or bloodshed." "What two sides?" Piper's vision began to dim. "You must wake soon, my child," said the goddess. "I do not always agree with Hera, but she's taken a bold risk, and I agree it must be done. Zeus has kept the two sides apart for too long. Only together will you have the power to save Olympus. Now, wake, and I hope you like the clothes I picked out." "What clothes?" Piper demanded, but the dream faded to black. PIPERWOKEATATABLEATASIDEWALKCAFE. For a second, she thought she was still dreaming. It was a sunny morning. The air was brisk but not unpleasant for sitting outside. At the other tables, a mix of bicyclists, business people, and college kids sat chatting and drinking coffee. She could smell eucalyptus trees. Lots of foot traffic passed in front of quaint little shops. The street was lined with bottle-brush trees and blooming azaleas as if winter was a foreign concept. In other words: she was in California. Her friends sat in chairs around her-all of them with their hands calmly folded across their chests, dozing pleasantly.And they all had new clothes on. Piper looked down at her own outfit and gasped. "Mother!" She yelled louder than she meant. Jason flinched, bumping the table with his knees, and then all of them were awake. "What?" Hedge demanded. "Fight who? Where?" "Falling!" Leo grabbed the table. "No-not falling. Where are we?" Jason blinked, trying to get his bearings. He focused on Piper and made a little choking sound. "What are you wearing?" Piper probably blushed. She was wearing the turquoise dress she'd seen in her dream, with black leggings and black leather boots. She had on her favorite silver charm bracelet, even though she'd left that back home in L.A., and her old snowboarding jacket from her dad, which amazingly went with the outfit pretty well. She pulled out Katoptris, and judging fromthe reflection in the blade, she'd gotten her hair done, too. "It's nothing," she said. "It's my-" She remembered Aphrodite's warning not to mention that they'd talked. "It's nothing." Leo grinned. "Aphrodite strikes again, huh? You're gonna be the best-dressed warrior in town, beauty queen." "Hey, Leo." Jason nudged his arm. "You look at yourself recently?" "What _ oh." All of them had been give a makeover. Leo was wearing pinstriped pants, black leather shoes, a white collarless shirt with suspenders, and his tool belt, Ray-Ban sunglasses, and a porkpie hat. "God, Leo." Piper tried not to laugh. "I think my dad wore that to his last premiere, minus the tool belt." "Hey, shut up!" "I think he looks good," said Coach Hedge. "'Course, I look better." The satyr was a pastel nightmare. Aphrodite had given him a baggy canary yellow zoot suit with two-tone shoes that fit over his hooves. He had a matching yellow broad-brimmed hat, a rose-colored shirt, a baby blue tie, and a blue carnation in his lapel, which Hedge sniffed and then ate. "Well," Jason said, "at least your mom overlooked me." Piper knew that wasn't exactly true. Looking at him, her heart did a little tap dance. Jason was dressed simply in jeans and a clean purple T-shirt, like he'd worn at the Grand Canyon. He had new track shoes on, and his hair was newly trimmed. His eyes were the same color as the sky. Aphrodite's message was clear: This one needs no improvement. And Piper agreed. "Anyway," she said uncomfortably, "how did we get here?" "Oh, that would be Mellie," Hedge said, chewing happily on his carnation. "Those winds shot us halfway across the country, I'd guess. We would've been smashed flat on impact, but Mellie's last gift-a nice soft breeze-cushioned our fall." "And she got fired for us," Leo said. "Man, we suck." "Ah, she'll be fine," Hedge said. "Besides, she couldn't help herself. I've got that effect on nymphs. I'll send her a message when we're through with this quest and help her figure something out. That is one aura I could settle down with and raise a herd of baby goats." "I'm going to be sick," Piper said. "Anyone else want coffee?" "Coffee!" Hedge's grin was stained blue from the flower. "I love coffee!" "Um," Jason said, "but-money? Our packs?" Piper looked down. Their packs were at their feet, and everything seemed to still be there. She reached into her coat pocket and felt two things she hadn't expected. One was a wad of cash. The other was a glass vial-the amnesia potion. She left the vial in her pocket and brought out the money. Leo whistled. "Allowance? Piper, your mom rocks!" "Waitress!" Hedge called. "Six double espressos, and whatever these guys want. Put it on the girl's tab." It didn't take them long to figure out where they were. The menus said "Cafe Verve, Walnut Creek, CA." And according to the waitress, it was 9 a.m. on December 21, the winter solstice, which gave them three hours until Enceladus's deadline. They didn't have to wonder where Mount Diablo was, either. They could see it on the horizon, right at the end of the street. After the Rockies, Mount Diablo didn't look very large, nor was it covered in snow. It seemed downright peaceful, its golden creases marbled with gray-green trees. But size was deceptive with mountains, Piper knew. It was probably much bigger up close. And appearances were deceptive too. Here they were-back in California-supposedly her home-with sunny skies, mild weather, laid-back people, and a plate of chocolate chip scones with coffee. And only a few miles away, somewhere on that peaceful mountain, a superpowerful, superevil giant was about to have her father for lunch. Leo pulled something out of his pocket-the old crayon drawing Aeolus had given him. Aphrodite must've thought it was important if she'd magically transferred it to his new outfit. "What is that?" Piper asked. Leo folded it up gingerly again and put it away. "Nothing. You don't want to see my kindergarten artwork." "It's more than that," Jason guessed. "Aeolus said it was the key to our success." Leo shook his head. "Not today. He was talking about_later." "How can you be sure?" Piper asked. "Trust me," Leo said. "Now-what's our game plan?" Coach Hedge belched. He'd already had three espressos and a plate of doughnuts, along with two napkins and another flower from the vase on the table. He would've eaten the silverware, except Piper had slapped his hand. "Climb the mountain," Hedge said. "Kill everything except Piper's dad. Leave." "Thank you, General Eisenhower," Jason grumbled. "Hey, I'm just saying!" "Guys," Piper said. "There's more you need to know." It was tricky, because she couldn't mention her mom; but she told them she'd figured some things out in her dreams. She told them about their real enemy: Gaea. "Gaea?" Leo shook his head. "Isn't that Mother Nature? She's supposed to have, like, flowers in her hair and birds singing around her and deer and rabbits doing her laundry." "Leo, that's Snow White," Piper said. "Okay, but-" "Listen, cupcake." Coach Hedge dabbed the espresso out of his goatee. "Piper's telling us some serious stuff, here. Gaea's no softie. I'm not even sure I could take her." Leo whistled. "Really?" Hedge nodded. "This earth lady-she and her old man the sky were nasty customers." "Ouranos," Piper said. She couldn't help looking up at the blue sky, wondering if it had eyes. "Right," Hedge said. "So Ouranos, he's not the best dad. He throws their first kids, the Cyclopes, into Tartarus. That makes Gaea mad, but she bides her time. Then they have another set of kids-the twelve Titans-and Gaea is afraid they'll get thrown into prison too. So she goes up to her son Kronos-" "The big bad dude," Leo said. "The one they defeated last summer." "Right. And Gaea's the one who gives him the scythe, and tells him, 'Hey, why don't I call your dad down here? And while he's talking to me, distracted, you can cut him to pieces. Then you can take over the world. Wouldn't that be great?'" Nobody said anything. Piper's chocolate chip scone didn't look so appetizing anymore. Even though she'd heard the story before, she still couldn't quite get her mind around it. She tried to imagine a kid so messed up, he would kill his own dad just for power. Then she imagined a mom so messed up, she would convince her son to do it. "Definitely not Snow White," she decided. "Nah, Kronos was a bad guy," Hedge said. "But Gaea is literally the mother of all bad guys. She's so old and powerful, so huge, that it's hard for her to be fully conscious. Most of the time, she sleeps, and that's the way we like her-snoring.""But she talked to me," Leo said. "How can she be asleep?" Gleeson brushed crumbs off his canary yellow lapel. He was on his sixth espresso now, and his pupils were as big as quarters. "Even in her sleep, part of her consciousness is active-dreaming, keeping watch, doing little things like causing volcanoes to explode and monsters to rise. Even now, she's not fully awake. Believe me, you don't want to see her fully awake." "But she's getting more powerful," Piper said. "She's causing the giants to rise. And if their king comes back-this guy Porphyrion-" "He'll raise an army to destroy the gods," Jason put in. "Starting with Hera. It'll be another war. And Gaea will wake up fully." Gleeson nodded. "Which is why it's a good idea for us to stay off the ground as much as possible." Leo looked warily at Mount Diablo. "So _ climbing a mountain. That would be bad." Piper's heart sank. First, she'd been asked to betray her friends. Now they were trying to help her rescue her dad even though they knew they were walking into a trap. The idea of fighting a giant had been scary enough. But the idea that Gaea was behind it-a force more powerful than a god or Titan _ "Guys, I can't ask you to do this," Piper said. "This is too dangerous." "You kidding?" Gleeson belched and showed them his blue carnation smile. "Who's ready to beat stuff up?" LEOHOPEDTHETAXICOULDTAKETHEM all the way to the top. No such luck. The cab made lurching, grinding sounds as it climbed the mountain road, and halfway up they found the ranger's station closed, a chain blocking the way. "Far as I can go," the cabbie said. "You sure about this? Gonna be a long walk back, and my car's acting funny. I can't wait for you." "We're sure." Leo was the first one out. He had a bad feeling about what was wrong with the cab, and when he looked down he saw he was right. The wheels were sinking into the road like it was made of quicksand. Not fast-just enough to make the driver think he had a transmission problem or a bad axle-but Leo knew different. The road was hard-packed dirt. No reason at all it should have been soft, but already Leo's shoes were starting to sink. Gaea was messing with them. While his friends got out, Leo paid the cabbie. He was generous-heck, why not? It was Aphrodite's money. Plus, he had a feeling he might never be coming off this mountain. "Keep the change," he said. "And get out of here. Quick." The driver didn't argue. Soon all they could see was his dust trail. The view from the mountain was pretty amazing. The whole inland valley around Mount Diablo was a patchwork of towns-grids of tree-lined streets and nice middle-class suburbs, shops, and schools. All these normal people living normal lives-the kind Leo had never known. "That's Concord," Jason said, pointing to the north. "Walnut Creek below us. To the south, Danville, past those hills. And that way _" He pointed west, where a ridge of golden hills held back a layer of fog, like the rim of a bowl. "That's the Berkeley Hills. The East Bay. Past that, San Francisco." "Jason?" Piper touched his arm. "You remember something? You've been here?" "Yes _ no." He gave her an anguished look. "It just seems important." "That's Titan land." Coach Hedge nodded toward the west. "Bad place, Jason. Trust me, this is as close to 'Frisco as we want to get." But Jason looked toward the foggy basin with such longing that Leo felt uneasy. Why did Jason seem so connected with that place-a place Hedge said was evil, full of bad magic and old enemies? What if Jason came from here? Everybody kept hinting Jason was an enemy, that his arrival at Camp HalfBlood was a dangerous mistake. No, Leo thought. Ridiculous. Jason was their friend. Leo tried to move his foot, but his heels were nowcompletely embedded in the dirt. "Hey, guys," he said. "Let's keep moving." The others noticed the problem. "Gaea is stronger here," Hedge grumbled. He popped his hooves free from his shoes, then handed the shoes to Leo. "Keep those for me, Valdez. They're nice." Leo snorted. "Yes, sir, Coach. Would you like thempolished?" "That's varsity thinking, Valdez." Hedge nodded approvingly. "But first, we'd better hike up this mountain while we still can." "How do we know where the giant is?" Piper asked. Jason pointed toward the peak. Drifting across the summit was a plume of smoke. From a distance, Leo had thought it was a cloud, but it wasn't. Something was burning. "Smoke equals fire," Jason said. "We'd better hurry." The Wilderness School had taken Leo on several forced marches. He thought he was in good shape. But climbing a mountain when the earth was trying to swallow his feet was like jogging on a flypaper treadmill. In no time, Leo had rolled up the sleeves on his collarless shirt, even though the wind was cold and sharp. He wished Aphrodite had given him walking shorts and some more comfortable shoes, but he was grateful for the Ray-Bans that kept the sun out of his eyes. He slipped his hands into his tool belt and started summoning supplies-gears, a tiny wrench, some strips of bronze. As he walked, he built-not really thinking about it, just fiddling with pieces. By the time they neared the crest of the mountain, Leo was the most fashionably dressed sweaty, dirty hero ever. His hands were covered in machine grease. The little object he'd made was like a windup toy-the kind that rattles and walks across a coffee table. He wasn't sure what it could do, but he slipped it into his tool belt. He missed his army coat with all its pockets. Even more than that, he missed Festus. He could use a fire-breathing bronze dragon right now. But Leo knew Festus would not be coming back-at least, not in his old form. He patted the picture in his pocket-the crayon drawing he'd made at the picnic table under the pecan tree when he was five years old. He remembered Tia Callida singing as he worked, and how upset he'd been when the winds had snatched the picture away. It isn't time yet, little hero, Tia Callida had told him. Someday, yes. You'll have your quest. You will find your destiny, and your hard journey will finally make sense. NowAeolus had returned the picture. Leo knew that meant his destiny was getting close; but the journey was as frustrating as this stupid mountain. Every time Leo thought they'd reached the summit, it turned out to be just another ridge with an even higher one behind it. First things first, Leo told himself. Survive today. Figure out crayon drawing of destiny later. Finally Jason crouched behind a wall of rock. He gestured for the others to do the same. Leo crawled up next to him. Piper had to pull Coach Hedge down. "I don't want to get my outfit dirty!" Hedge complained. "Shhh!" Piper said. Reluctantly, the satyr knelt. Just over the ridge where they were hiding, in the shadowof the mountain's final crest, was a forested depression about the size of a football field, where the giant Enceladus had set up camp. Trees had been cut down to make a towering purple bonfire. The outer rim of the clearing was littered with extra logs and construction equipment-an earthmover; a big crane thing with rotating blades at the end like an electric shaver -must be a tree harvester, Leo thought-and a long metal column with an ax blade, like a sideways guillotine-a hydraulic ax. Why a giant needed construction equipment, Leo wasn't sure. He didn't see how the creature in front of him could even fit in the driver's seat. The giant Enceladus was so large, so horrible, Leo didn't want to look at him. But he forced himself to focus on the monster. To start with, he was thirty feet tall-easily as tall as the treetops. Leo was sure the giant could've seen them behind their ridge, but he seemed intent on the weird purple bonfire, circling it and chanting under his breath. From the waist up, the giant appeared humanoid, his muscular chest clad in bronze armor, decorated with flame designs. His arms were completely ripped. Each of his biceps was bigger than Leo. His skin was bronze but sooty with ash. His face was crudely shaped, like a half-finished clay figure, but his eyes glowed white, and his hair was matted in shaggy dreadlocks down to his shoulders, braided with bones. From the waist down, he was even more terrifying. His legs were scaly green, with claws instead of feet-like the forelegs of a dragon. In his hand, Enceladus held a spear the size of a flagpole. Every so often he dipped its tip in the fire, turning the metal molten red. "Okay," Coach Hedge whispered. "Here's the plan-" Leo elbowed him. "You're not charging him alone!" "Aw, c'mon." Piper choked back a sob. "Look." Just visible on the other side of the bonfire was a man tied to a post. His head slumped like he was unconscious, so Leo couldn't make out his face, but Piper didn't seem to have any doubts. "Dad," she said. Leo swallowed. He wished this were a Tristan McLean movie. Then Piper's dad would be faking unconsciousness. He'd untie his bonds and knock out the giant with some cleverly hidden anti-giant gas. Heroic music would start to play, and Tristan McLean would make his amazing escape, running away in slow motion while the mountainside exploded behind him. But this wasn't a movie. Tristan McLean was half dead and about to be eaten. The only people who could stop it -three fashionably dressed teenaged demigods and a megalomaniac goat. "There's four of us," Hedge whispered urgently. "And only one of him." "Did you miss the fact that he's thirty feet tall?" Leo asked. "Okay," Hedge said. "So you, me, and Jason distract him. Piper sneaks around and frees her dad." They all looked at Jason. "What?" Jason asked. "I'm not the leader." "Yes," Piper said. "You are." They'd never really talked about it, but no one disagreed, not even Hedge. Coming this far had been a team effort, but when it came to a life-and-death decision, Leo knew Jason was the one to ask. Even if he had no memory, Jason had a kind of balance to him. You could just tell he'd been in battles before, and he knew how to keep his cool. Leo wasn't exactly the trusting type, but he trusted Jason with his life. "I hate to say it," Jason sighed, "but Coach Hedge is right. A distraction is Piper's best chance." Not a good chance, Leo thought. Not even a survivable chance. Just their best chance. They couldn't sit there all day and talk about it, though. It had to be close to noon-the giant's deadline-and the ground was still trying to pull them down. Leo's knees had already sunk two inches into the dirt. Leo looked at the construction equipment and got a crazy idea. He brought out the little toy he'd made on the climb, and he realized what it could do-if he was lucky, which he almost never was. "Let's boogie," he said. "Before I come to my senses." THE PLAN WENT WRONG ALMOST IMMEDIATELY. Piper scrambled along the ridge, trying to keep her head down, while Leo, Jason, and Coach Hedge walked straight into the clearing. Jason summoned his golden lance. He brandished it over his head and yelled, "Giant!" Which sounded pretty good, and a lot more confident than Leo could've managed. He was thinking more along the lines of, "We are pathetic ants! Don't kill us!" Enceladus stopped chanting at the flames. He turned toward them and grinned, revealing fangs like a saber-toothed tiger's. "Well," the giant rumbled. "What a nice surprise." Leo didn't like the sound of that. His hand closed on his windup gadget. He stepped sideways, edging his way toward the bulldozer. Coach Hedge shouted, "Let the movie star go, you big ugly cupcake! Or I'm gonna plant my hoof right up your-" "Coach," Jason said. "Shut up." Enceladus roared with laughter. "I've forgotten how funny satyrs are. When we rule the world, I think I'll keep your kind around. You can entertain me while I eat all the other mortals." "Is that a compliment?" Hedge frowned at Leo. "I don't think that was a compliment." Enceladus opened his mouth wide, and his teeth began to glow. "Scatter!" Leo yelled. Jason and Hedge dove to the left as the giant blew fire-a furnace blast so hot even Festus would've been jealous. Leo dodged behind the bulldozer, wound up his homemade device, and dropped it into the driver's seat. Then he ran to the right, heading for the tree harvester. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Jason rise and charge the giant. Coach Hedge ripped off his canary yellow jacket, which was now on fire, and bleated angrily. "I liked that outfit!" Then he raised his club and charged, too. Before they could get very far, Enceladus slammed his spear against the ground. The entire mountain shook. The shockwave sent Leo sprawling. He blinked, momentarily stunned. Through a haze of grassfire and bitter smoke, he saw Jason staggering to his feet on the other side of the clearing. Coach Hedge was knocked out cold. He'd fallen forward and hit his head on a log. His furry hindquarters were sticking straight up, with his canary yellow pants around his knees-a view Leo really didn't need. The giant bellowed, "I see you, Piper McLean!" He turned and blew fire at a line of bushes to Leo's right. Piper ran into the clearing like a flushed quail, the underbrush burning behind her. Enceladus laughed. "I'm happy you've arrived. And you brought me my prizes!" Leo's gut twisted. This was the moment Piper had warned them about. They'd played right into Enceladus's hands. The giant must've read Leo's expression, because he laughed even louder. "That's right, son of Hephaestus. I didn't expect you all to stay alive this long, but it doesn't matter. By bringing you here, Piper McLean has sealed the deal. If she betrays you, I'm as good as my word. She can take her father and go. What do I care about a movie star?" Leo could see Piper's dad more clearly now. He wore a ragged dress shirt and torn slacks. His bare feet were caked with mud. He wasn't completely unconscious, because he lifted his head and groaned-yep, Tristan McLean all right. Leo had seen that face in enough movies. But he had a nasty cut down the side of his face, and he looked thin and sickly-not heroic at all. "Dad!" Piper yelled. Mr. McLean blinked, trying to focus. "Pipes _ ? Where _" Piper drew her dagger and faced Enceladus. "Let him go! " "Of course, dear," the giant rumbled. "Swear your loyalty to me, and we have no problem. Only these others must die." Piper looked back and forth between Leo and her dad. "He'll kill you," Leo warned. "Don't trust him!" "Oh, come now," Enceladus bellowed. "You know I was born to fight Athena herself? Mother Gaea made each of us giants with a specific purpose, designed to fight and destroy a particular god. I was Athena's nemesis, the anti-Athena, you might say. Compared to some of my brethren-I am small! But I am clever. And I keep my bargain with you, Piper McLean. It's part of my plan!" Jason was on his feet now, lance ready; but before he could act, Enceladus roared-a call so loud it echoed down the valley and was probably heard all the way to San Francisco. At the edge the woods, half a dozen ogre-like creatures rose up. Leo realized with nauseating certainty that they hadn't simply been hiding there. They'd risen straight out of the earth. The ogres shuffled forward. They were small compared to Enceladus, about seven feet tall. Each one of them had six arms-one pair in the regular spot, then an extra pair sprouting out the top of their shoulders, and another set shooting fromthe sides of their rib cages. They wore only ragged leather loincloths, and even across the clearing, Leo could smell them. Six guys who never bathed, with six armpits each. Leo decided if he survived this day, he'd have to take a three-hour shower just to forget the stench. shower just to forget the stench. Leo stepped toward Piper. "What-what are those?" Her blade reflected the purple light of the bonfire. "Gegenees." "In English?" Leo asked. "The Earthborn," she said. "Six-armed giants who fought Jason-the first Jason." "Very good, my dear!" Enceladus sounded delighted. "They used to live on a miserable place in Greece called Bear Mountain. Mount Diablo is much nicer! They are lesser children of Mother Earth, but they serve their purpose. They're good with construction equipment-" "Vroom, vroom!" one of the Earthborn bellowed, and the others took up the chant, each moving his six hands as though driving a car, as if it were some kind of weird religious ritual. "Vroom, vroom!" "Yes, thank you, boys," Encedalus said. "They also have a score to settle with heroes. Especially anyone named Jason." "Yay-son!" the Earthborn screamed. They all picked up clumps of earth, which solidified in their hands, turning to nasty pointed stones. "Where Yay-son? Kill Yay-son!" Enceladus smiled. "You see, Piper, you have a choice. Save your father, or ah, try to save your friends and face certain death." Piper stepped forward. Her eyes blazed with such rage, even the Earthborn backed away. She radiated power and beauty, but it had nothing to do with her clothes or her makeup. "You will not take the people I love," she said. "None of them." Her words rippled across the clearing with such force, the Earthborn muttered, "Okay. Okay, sorry," and began to retreat. "Stand your ground, fools!" Enceladus bellowed. He snarled at Piper. "This is why we wanted you alive, my dear. You could have been so useful to us. But as you wish. Earthborn! Iwill show you Jason." Leo's heart sank. But the giant didn't point to Jason. He pointed to the other side of the bonfire, where Tristan McLean hung helpless and half conscious. "There is Jason," Enceladus said with pleasure. "Tear himapart!" Leo's biggest surprise: One look from Jason, and all three of them knew the game plan. When had that happened, that they could read each other so well? Jason charged Enceladus, while Piper rushed to her father, and Leo dashed for the tree harvester, which stood between Mr. McLean and the Earthborn. The Earthborn were fast, but Leo ran like a storm spirit. He leaped toward the harvester from five feet away and slammed into the driver's seat. His hands flew across the controls, and the machine responded with unnatural speed-coming to life as if it knew how important this was. "Ha!" Leo screamed, and swung the crane arm through the bonfire, toppling burning logs onto the Earthborn and spraying sparks everywhere. Two giants went down under a fiery avalanche and melted back into the earth-hopefully to stay for a while. The other four ogres stumbled across burning logs and hot coals while Leo brought the harvester around. He smashed a button, and on the end of the crane arm the wicked rotating blades began to whir. Out of the corner of his eye, he could see Piper at the stake, cutting her father free. On the other side of the clearing, Jason fought the giant, somehow managing to dodge his massive spear and blasts of fire breath. Coach Hedge was still heroically passed out with his goat tail sticking up in the air. The whole side of the mountain would soon be ablaze. The fire wouldn't bother Leo, but if his friends got trapped up here -No. He had to act quickly. One of the Earthborn-apparently not the most intelligent one-charged the tree harvester, and Leo swung the crane arm in his direction. As soon as the blades touched the ogre, he dissolved like wet clay and splattered all over the clearing. Most of him flew into Leo's face. He spit clay out of his mouth and turned the harvester toward the three remaining Earthborn, who backed up quickly. "Bad vroom-vroom!" one yelled. "Yeah, that's right!" Leo yelled at them. "You want some bad vroom-vroom? Come on!" Unfortunately, they did. Three ogres with six arms, each throwing large, hard rocks at super speed-and Leo knew it was over. Somehow, he launched himself in a backward somersault off the harvester half a second before a boulder demolished the driver's seat. Rocks slammed into metal. By the time Leo stumbled to his feet, the harvester looked like a crushed soda can, sinking in the mud. "Dozer!" Leo yelled. The ogres were picking up more clumps of earth, but this time they were glaring in Piper's direction. Thirty feet away, the bulldozer roared to life. Leo's makeshift gadget had done its job, burrowing into the earthmover's controls and giving it a temporary life of its own. It roared toward the enemy. Just as Piper cut her father free and caught him in her arms, the giants launched their second volley of stones. The dozer swiveled in the mud, skidding to intercept, and most of the rocks slammed into its shovel. The force was so great it pushed the dozer back. Two rocks ricocheted and struck their throwers. Two more Earthborn melted into clay. Unfortunately, one rock hit the dozer's engine, sending up a cloud of oily smoke, and the dozer groaned to a stop. Another great toy broken. Piper dragged her father below the ridge. The last Earthborn charged after her. Leo was out of tricks, but he couldn't let that monster get to Piper. He ran forward, straight through the flames, and grabbed something-anything-from his tool belt. "Hey, stupid!" he yelled, and threw a screwdriver at the Earthborn. It didn't kill the ogre, but it sure got his attention. The screwdriver sank hilt-deep into the Earthborn's forehead like he was made of Play-Doh. The Earthborn yelped in pain and skittered to a halt. He pulled out the screwdriver, turned and glared at Leo. Sadly, this last ogre looked like the biggest and nastiest of the bunch. Gaea had really gone all out creating him-with extra muscle upgrades, deluxe ugly face, the whole package. Oh, great, Leo thought. I've made a friend. "You die!" the Earthborn roared. "Friend of Yay-son dies!" The ogre scooped up handfuls of dirt, which immediately hardened into rock cannonballs. Leo's mind went blank. He reached into his tool belt, but he couldn't think of anything that would help. He was supposed to be clever-but he couldn't craft or build or tinker his way out of this one. Fine, he thought. I'll go out blaze-of-glory style. He burst into flames, yelled, "Hephaestus!" and charged at the ogre barehanded. He never got there. A blur of turquoise and black flashed behind the ogre. A gleaming bronze blade sliced up one side of the Earthborn and down the other. Six large arms dropped to the ground, boulders rolling out of their useless hands. The Earthborn looked down, very surprised. He mumbled, "Arms go bye-bye." Then he melted into the ground. Piper stood there, breathing hard, her dagger covered with clay. Her dad sat at the ridge, dazed and wounded, but still alive. Piper's expression was ferocious-almost crazy, like a cornered animal. Leo was glad she was on his side. "Nobody hurts my friends," she said, and with a sudden warm feeling, Leo realized she was talking about him. Then she yelled, "Come on!" Leo saw that the battle wasn't over. Jason was still fighting the giant Enceladus-and it wasn't going well. WHENJASON'SLANCEBROKE, he knew he was dead. The battle had started well enough. Jason's instincts kicked in, and his gut told him he'd dueled opponents almost this big before. Size and strength equaled slowness, so Jason just had to be quicker-pace himself, wear out his opponent, and avoid getting smashed or flame-broiled. He rolled away from the giant's first spear thrust and jabbed Enceladus in the ankle. Jason's javelin managed to pierce the thick dragon hide, and golden ichor-the blood of immortals-trickled down the giant's clawed foot. Enceladus bellowed in pain and blasted him with fire. Jason scrambled away, rolling behind the giant, and struck again behind his knee. It went on like that for seconds, minutes-it was hard to judge. Jason heard combat across the clearing-construction equipment grinding, fire roaring, monsters shouting, and rocks smashing into metal. He heard Leo and Piper yelling defiantly, which meant they were still alive. Jason tried not to think about it. He couldn't afford to get distracted. Enceladus's spear missed him by a millimeter. Jason kept dodging, but the ground stuck to his feet. Gaea was getting stronger, and the giant was getting faster. Enceladus might be slow, but he wasn't dumb. He began anticipating Jason's moves, and Jason's attacks were only annoying him, making him more enraged. "I'm not some minor monster," Enceladus bellowed. "I ama giant, born to destroy gods! Your little gold toothpick can't kill me, boy." Jason didn't waste energy replying. He was already tired. The ground clung to his feet, making him feel like he weighed an extra hundred pounds. The air was full of smoke that burned his lungs. Fires roared around him, stoked by the winds, and the temperature was approaching the heat of an oven. Jason raised his javelin to block the giant's next strike-a big mistake. Don't fight force with force, a voice chided him-the wolf Lupa, who'd told him that long ago. He managed to deflect the spear, but it grazed his shoulder, and his arm went numb. He backed up, almost tripping over a burning log. He had to delay-to keep the giant's attention fixed on himwhile his friends dealt with the Earthborn and rescued Piper's dad. He couldn't fail. He retreated, trying to lure the giant to the edge of the clearing. Enceladus could sense his weariness. The giant smiled, baring his fangs. "The mighty Jason Grace," he taunted. "Yes, we knowabout you, son of Jupiter. The one who led the assault on Mount Othrys. The one who single-handedly slew the Titan Krios and toppled the black throne." Jason's mind reeled. He didn't know these names, yet they made his skin tingle, as if his body remembered the pain his mind didn't. "What are you talking about?" he asked. He realized his mistake when Enceladus breathed fire. Distracted, Jason moved too slowly. The blast missed him, but heat blistered his back. He slammed into the ground, his clothes smoldering. He was blinded from ash and smoke, choking as he tried to breathe. He scrambled back as the giant's spear cleaved the ground between his feet. Jason managed to stand. If he could only summon one good blast of lightning-but he was already drained, and in this condition, the effort might kill him. He didn't even know if electricity would harm the giant. Death in battle is honorable, said Lupa's voice. That's real comforting, Jason thought. One last try: Jason took a deep breath and charged. Enceladus let him approach, grinning with anticipation. At the last second, Jason faked a strike and rolled between the giant's legs. He came up quickly, thrusting with all his might, ready to stab the giant in the small of his back, but Enceladus anticipated the trick. He stepped aside with too much speed and agility for a giant, as if the earth were helping him move. He swept his spear sideways, met Jason's javelin-and with a snap like a shotgun blast, the golden weapon shattered. The explosion was hotter than the giant's breath, blinding Jason with golden light. The force knocked him off his feet and squeezed the breath out of him. When he regained his focus, he was sitting at the rim of a crater. Enceladus stood at the other side, staggering and confused. The javelin's destruction had released so much energy, it had blasted a perfect cone-shaped pit thirty feet deep, fusing the dirt and rock into a slick glassy substance. Jason wasn't sure how he'd survived, but his clothes were steaming. He was out of energy. He had no weapon. And Enceladus was still very much alive. Jason tried to get up, but his legs were like lead. Enceladus blinked at the destruction, then laughed. "Impressive! Unfortunately, that was your last trick, demigod." Enceladus leaped the crater in a single bound, planting his feet on either side of Jason. The giant raised his spear, its tip hovering six feet over Jason's chest. "And now," Enceladus said, "my first sacrifice to Gaea!" TIME SEEMED TO SLOW DOWN, WHICH WAS really frustrating, since Jason still couldn't move. He felt himself sinking into the earth like the ground was a waterbed-comfortable, urging him to relax and give up. He wondered if the stories of the Underworld were true. Would he end up in the Fields of Punishment or Elysium? If he couldn't remember any of his deeds, would they still count? He wondered if the judges would take that into consideration, or if his dad, Zeus, would write him a note: "Please excuse Jason from eternal damnation. He has had amnesia." Jason couldn't feel his arms. He could see the tip of the spear coming toward his chest in slow motion. He knew he should move, but he couldn't seem to do it. Funny, he thought. All that effort to stay alive, and then, boom. You just lie there helplessly while a fire-breathing giant impales you. Leo's voice yelled, "Heads up!" A large black metal wedge slammed into Enceladus with a massive thunk! The giant toppled over and slid into the pit. "Jason, get up!" Piper called. Her voice energized him, shook him out of his stupor. He sat up, his head groggy, while Piper grabbed him under his arms and hauled him to his feet. "Don't die on me," she ordered. "You are not dying on me." "Yes, ma'am." He felt light-headed, but she was about the most beautiful thing he'd ever seen. Her hair was smoldering. Her face was smudged with soot. She had a cut on her arm, her dress was torn, and she was missing a boot. Beautiful. About a hundred feet behind her, Leo was standing over a piece of construction equipment-a long cannonlike thing with a single massive piston, the edge broken clean off. Then Jason looked down in the crater and saw where the other end of the hydraulic ax had gone. Enceladus was struggling to rise, an ax blade the size of a washing machine stuck in his breastplate. Amazingly, the giant managed to pull the ax blade free. He yelled in pain and the mountain trembled. Golden ichor soaked the front of his armor, but Enceladus stood. Shakily, he bent down and retrieved his spear. "Good try." The giant winced. "But I cannot be beaten." As they watched, the giant's armor mended itself, and the ichor stopped flowing. Even the cuts on his dragon-scale legs, which Jason had worked so hard to make, were now just pale scars. Leo ran up to them, saw the giant, and cursed. "What is it with this guy? Die, already!" "My fate is preordained," Enceladus said. "Giants cannot be killed by gods or heroes." "Only by both," Jason said. The giant's smile faltered, and Jason saw in his eyes something like fear. "It's true, isn't it? Gods and demigods have to work together to kill you." "You will not live long enough to try!" The giant started stumbling up the crater's slope, slipping on the glassy sides. "Anyone have a god handy?" Leo asked. Jason's heart filled with dread. He looked at the giant below them, struggling to get out of the pit, and he knew what had to happen. "Leo," he said, "if you've got a rope in that tool belt, get it ready." He leaped at the giant with no weapon but his bare hands. "Enceladus!" Piper yelled. "Look behind you!" It was an obvious trick, but her voice was so compelling, even Jason bought it. The giant said, "What?" and turned like there was an enormous spider on his back. Jason tackled his legs at just the right moment. The giant lost his balance. Enceladus slammed into the crater and slid to the bottom. While he tried to rise, Jason put his arms around the giant's neck. When Enceladus struggled to his feet, Jason was riding his shoulders. "Get off!" Enceladus screamed. He tried to grab Jason's legs, but Jason scrabbled around, squirming and climbing over the giant's hair. Father, Jason thought. If I've ever done anything good, anything you approved of, help me now. I offer my own life -just save my friends. Suddenly he could smell the metallic scent of a storm. Darkness swallowed the sun. The giant froze, sensing it too. Jason yelled to his friends, "Hit the deck!" And every hair on his head stood straight up. Crack! Lightning surged through Jason's body, straight through Enceladus, and into the ground. The giant's back stiffened, and Jason was thrown clear. When he regained his bearings, he was slipping down the side of the crater, and the crater was cracking open. The lightning bolt had split the mountain itself. The earth rumbled and tore apart, and Enceladus's legs slid into the chasm. He clawed helplessly at the glassy sides of the pit, and just for a moment managed to hold on to the edge, his hands trembling. He fixed Jason with a look of hatred. "You've won nothing, boy. My brothers are rising, and they are ten times as strong as I. We will destroy the gods at their roots! You will die, and Olympus will die with-" The giant lost his grip and fell into the crevice. The earth shook. Jason fell toward the rift. "Grab hold!" Leo yelled. Jason's feet were at the edge of the chasm when he grabbed the rope, and Leo and Piper pulled him up. They stood together, exhausted and terrified, as the chasm closed like an angry mouth. The ground stopped pulling at their feet. For now, Gaea was gone. The mountainside was on fire. Smoke billowed hundreds of feet into the air. Jason spotted a helicopter-maybe firefighters or reporters-coming toward them. All around them was carnage. The Earthborn had melted into piles of clay, leaving behind only their rock missiles and some nasty bits of loincloth, but Jason figured they would reform soon enough. Construction equipment lay in ruins. The ground was scarred and blackened. Coach Hedge started to move. He sat up with a groan and rubbed his head. His canary yellow pants were now the color of Dijon mustard mixed with mud. He blinked and looked around him at the battle scene. "Did I do this?" Before Jason could reply, Hedge picked up his club and got shakily to his feet. "Yeah, you wanted some hoof? I gave you some hoof, cupcakes! Who's the goat, huh?" He did a little dance, kicking rocks and making what were probably rude satyr gestures at the piles of clay. Leo cracked a smile, and Jason couldn't help it-he started to laugh. It probably sounded a little hysterical, but it was such a relief to be alive, he didn't care. Then a man stood up across the clearing. Tristan McLean staggered forward. His eyes were hollow, shell-shocked, like someone who'd just walked through a nuclear wasteland. "Piper?" he called. His voice cracked. "Pipes, what-what is-" He couldn't complete the thought. Piper ran over to himand hugged him tightly, but he almost didn't seem to know her. Jason had felt a similar way-that morning at the Grand Canyon, when he woke with no memory. But Mr. McLean had the opposite problem. He had too many memories, too much trauma his mind just couldn't handle. He was coming apart. "We need to get him out of here," Jason said. "Yeah, but how?" Leo said. "He's in no shape to walk." Jason glanced up at the helicopter, which was now circling directly overhead. "Can you make us a bullhorn or something?" he asked Leo. "Piper has some talking to do." BORROWINGTHEHELICOPTER WAS EASY.. Getting her dad on board was not. Piper needed only a few words through Leo's improvised bullhorn to convince the pilot to land on the mountain. The Park Service copter was big enough for medical evacuations or search and rescue, and when Piper told the very nice ranger pilot lady that it would be a great idea to fly them to the Oakland Airport, she readily agreed. "No," her dad muttered, as they picked him up off the ground. "Piper, what-there were monsters-there were monsters-" She needed both Leo's and Jason's help to hold him, while Coach Hedge gathered their supplies. Fortunately Hedge had put his pants and shoes back on, so Piper didn't have to explain the goat legs. It broke Piper's heart to see her dad like this-pushed beyond the breaking point, crying like a little boy. She didn't know what the giant had done to him exactly, how the monsters had shattered his spirit, but she didn't think she could stand to find out. "It'll be okay, Dad," she said, making her voice as soothing as possible. She didn't want to charmspeak her own father, but it seemed the only way. "These people are my friends. We're going to help you. You're safe now." He blinked, and looked up at helicopter rotors. "Blades. They had a machine with so many blades. They had six arms _" When they got him to the bay doors, the pilot came over to help. "What's wrong with him?" she asked. "Smoke inhalation," Jason suggested. "Or heat exhaustion." "We should get him to a hospital," the pilot said. "It's okay," Piper said. "The airport is good." "Yeah, the airport is good," the pilot agreed immediately. Then she frowned, as if uncertain why she'd changed her mind. "Isn't he Tristan McLean, the movie star?" "No," Piper said. "He only looks like him. Forget it." "Yeah," the pilot said. "Only looks like him. I-" She blinked, confused. "I forgot what Iwas saying. Let's get going." Jason raised his eyebrows at Piper, obviously impressed, but Piper felt miserable. She didn't want to twist people's minds, convince them of things they didn't believe. It felt so bossy, so wrong-like something Drew would do back at camp, or Medea in her evil department store. And how would it help her father? She couldn't convince him he would be okay, or that nothing had happened. His trauma was just too deep. Finally they got him on board, and the helicopter took off. The pilot kept getting questions over her radio, asking her where she was going, but she ignored them. They veered away from the burning mountain and headed toward the Berkeley Hills. "Piper." Her dad grasped her hand and held on like he was afraid he'd fall. "It's you? They told me-they told me you would die. They said _ horrible things would happen." "It's me, Dad." It took all her willpower not to cry. She had to be strong for him. "Everything's going to be okay." "They were monsters," he said. "Real monsters. Earth spirits, right out of Grandpa Tom's stories-and the Earth Mother was angry with me. And the giant, Tsul'kalu, breathing fire-" He focused on Piper again, his eyes like broken glass, reflecting a crazy kind of light. "They said you were a demigod. Your mother was _" "Aphrodite," Piper said. "Goddess of love." "I-I-" He took a shaky breath, then seemed to forget how to exhale. Piper's friends were careful not to watch. Leo fiddled with a lug nut from his tool belt. Jason gazed at the valley below-the roads backing up as mortals stopped their cars and gawked at the burning mountain. Gleeson chewed on the stub of his carnation, and for once the satyr didn't look in the mood to yell or boast. Tristan McLean wasn't supposed to be seen like this. He was a star. He was confident, stylish, suave-always in control. That was the public image he projected. Piper had seen the image falter before. But this was different. Now it was broken, gone. "I didn't know about Mom," Piper told him. "Not until you were taken. When we found out where you were, we came right away. My friends helped me. No one will hurt you again." Her dad couldn't stop shivering. "You're heroes-you and your friends. I can't believe it. You're a real hero, not like me. Not playing a part. I'm so proud of you, Pipes." But the words were muttered listlessly, in a semi-trance. He gazed down on the valley, and his grip on Piper's hand went slack. "Your mother never told me." "She thought it was for the best." It sounded lame, even to Piper, and no amount of charmspeak could change that. But she didn't tell her dad what Aphrodite had really worried about: If he has to spend the rest of his life with those memories, knowing that gods and spirits walk the earth, it will shatter him. Piper felt inside the pocket of her jacket. The vial was still there, warm to her touch. But how could she erase his memories? Her dad finally knew who she was. He was proud of her, and for once she was his hero, not the other way around. He would never send her away now. They shared a secret. How could she go back to the way things were? She held his hand, speaking to him about small things -her time at the Wilderness School, her cabin at Camp HalfBlood. She told him how Coach Hedge ate carnations and got knocked on his butt on Mount Diablo, how Leo had tamed a dragon, and how Jason had made wolves back down by talking in Latin. Her friends smiled reluctantly as she recounted their adventures. Her dad seemed to relax as she talked, but he didn't smile. Piper wasn't even sure he heard her. As they passed over the hills into the East Bay, Jason tensed. He leaned so far out the doorway Piper was afraid he'd fall. He pointed. "What is that?" Piper looked down, but she didn't see anything interesting -just hills, woods, houses, little roads snaking through the canyons. A highway cut through a tunnel in the hills, connecting the East Bay with the inland towns. "Where?" Piper asked. "That road," he said. "The one that goes through the hills." Piper picked up the com helmet the pilot had given her and relayed the question over the radio. The answer wasn't very exciting. "She says it's Highway 24," Piper reported. "That's the Caldecott Tunnel. Why?" Jason stared intently at the tunnel entrance, but he said nothing. It disappeared from view as they flew over downtown Oakland, but Jason still stared into the distance, his expression almost as unsettled as Piper's dad's. "Monsters," her dad said, a tear tracing his cheek. "I live in a world of monsters." AIRTRAFFICCONTROLDIDN'TWANTTO let an unscheduled helicopter land at the Oakland Airport-until Piper got on the radio. Then it turned out to be no problem. They unloaded on the tarmac, and everyone looked at Piper. "What now?" Jason asked her. She felt uncomfortable. She didn't want to be in charge, but for her dad's sake, she had to appear confident. She had no plan. She'd just remembered that he'd flown into Oakland, which meant his private plane would still be here. But today was the solstice. They had to save Hera. They had no idea where to go or if they were even too late. And how could she leave her dad in this condition? "First thing," she said. "I-I have to get my dad home. I'msorry, guys." Their faces fell. "Oh," Leo said. "I mean, absolutely. He needs you right now. We can take it from here." "Pipes, no." Her dad had been sitting in the helicopter doorway, a blanket around his shoulders. But he stumbled to his feet. "You have a mission.A quest. I can't-" "I'll take care of him," said Coach Hedge. Piper stared at him. The satyr was the last person she'd expected to offer. "You?" she asked. "I'm a protector," Gleeson said. "That's my job, not fighting. " He sounded a little crestfallen, and Piper realized maybe she shouldn't have recounted how he got knocked unconscious in the last battle. In his own way, maybe the satyr was as sensitive as her dad. Then Hedge straightened, and set his jaw. "Of course, I'mgood at fighting, too." He glared at them all, daring them to argue. "Yes," Jason said. "Terrifying," Leo agreed. The coach grunted. "But I'm a protector, and I can do this. Your dad's right, Piper. You need to carry on with the quest." "But _" Piper's eyes stung, as if she were back in the forest fire. "Dad _" He held out his arms, and she hugged him. He felt frail. He was trembling so much, it scared her. "Let's give them a minute," Jason said, and they took the pilot a few yards down the tarmac. "I can't believe it," her dad said. "I failed you." "No, Dad!" "The things they did, Piper, the visions they showed me _" "Dad, listen." She took out the vial from her pocket. "Aphrodite gave me this, for you. It takes away your recent memories. It'll make it like none of this ever happened." He gazed at her, as if translating her words from a foreign language. "But you're a hero. Iwould forget that?" "Yes," Piper whispered. She forced an assuring tone into her voice. "Yes, you would. It'll be like-like before." He closed his eyes and took a shaky breath. "I love you, Piper. I always have. I-I sent you away because I didn't want you exposed to my life. Not the way I grew up-the poverty, the hopelessness. Not the Hollywood insanity either. I thought-I thought I was protecting you." He managed a brittle laugh. "As if your life without me was better, or safer." Piper took his hand. She'd heard him talk about protecting her before, but she'd never believed it. She'd always thought he was just rationalizing. Her dad seemed so confident and easygoing, like his life was a joyride. How could he claim she needed protecting from that? Finally Piper understood he'd been acting for her benefit, trying not to show how scared and insecure he was. He really had been trying to protect her. And now his ability to cope had been destroyed. She offered him the vial. "Take it. Maybe someday we'll be ready to talk about this again. When you're ready." "When I'm ready," he murmured. "You make it sound like -like I'm the one growing up. I'm supposed to be the parent." He took the vial. His eyes glimmered with a small desperate hope. "I love you, Pipes." "Love you, too, Dad." He drank the pink liquid. His eyes rolled up into his head, and he slumped forward. Piper caught him, and her friends ran up to help. "Got him," Hedge said. The satyr stumbled, but he was strong enough to hold Tristan McLean upright. "I already asked our ranger friend to call up his plane. It's on the way now. Home address?" Piper was about to tell him. Then a thought occurred to her. She checked her dad's pocket, and his BlackBerry was still there. It seemed bizarre that he'd still have something so normal after all he'd been through, but she guessed Enceladus hadn't seen any reason to take it. "Everything's on here," Piper said. "Address, his chauffeur's number. Just watch out for Jane." Hedge's eyes lit up, like he sensed a possible fight. "Who's Jane?" By the time Piper explained, her dad's sleek white Gulfstream had taxied next to the helicopter. Hedge and the flight attendant got Piper's dad on board. Then Hedge came down one last time to say his good-byes. He gave Piper a hug and glared at Jason and Leo. "You cupcakes take care of this girl, you hear? Or I'm gonna make you do push-ups." "You got it, Coach," Leo said, a smile tugging at his mouth. "No push-ups," Jason promised. Piper gave the old satyr one more hug. "Thank you, Gleeson. Take care of him, please." "I got this, McLean," he assured her. "They got root beer and veggie enchiladas on this flight, and one hundred percent linen napkins-yum! I could get used to this." Trotting up the stairs, he lost one shoe, and his hoof was visible for just a second. The flight attendant's eyes widened, but she looked away and pretended nothing was wrong. Piper figured she'd probably seen stranger things, working for Tristan McLean. When the plane was heading down the runaway, Piper started to cry. She'd been holding it in too long and she just couldn't anymore. Before she knew it, Jason was hugging her, and Leo stood uncomfortably nearby, pulling Kleenex out of his tool belt. "Your dad's in good hands," Jason said. "You did amazing. " She sobbed into his shirt. She allowed herself to be held for six deep breaths. Seven. Then she couldn't indulge herself anymore. They needed her. The helicopter pilot was already looking uncomfortable, like she was starting to wonder why she'd flown them here. "Thank you, guys," Piper said. "I-" She wanted to tell them how much they meant to her. They'd sacrificed everything, maybe even their quest, to help her. She couldn't repay them, couldn't even put her gratitude into words. But her friends' expressions told her they understood. Then, right next to Jason, the air began to shimmer. At first Piper thought it was heat off the tarmac, or maybe gas fumes from the helicopter, but she'd seen something like this before in Medea's fountain. It was an Iris message. An image appeared in the air-a dark-haired girl in silver winter camouflage, holding a bow. Jason stumbled back in surprise. "Thalia!" "Thank the gods," said the Hunter. The scene behind her was hard to make out, but Piper heard yelling, metal clashing on metal, and explosions. "We've found her," Thalia said. "Where are you?" "Oakland," he said. "Where are you?" "The Wolf House! Oakland is good; you're not too far. We're holding off the giant's minions, but we can't hold themforever. Get here before sunset, or it's all over." "Then it's not too late?" Piper cried. Hope surged through her, but Thalia's expression quickly dampened it. "Not yet," Thalia said. "But Jason-it's worse than I realized. Porphyrion is rising. Hurry." "But where is the Wolf House?" he pleaded. "Our last trip," Thalia said, her image starting to flicker. "The park. Jack London. Remember?" This made no sense to Piper, but Jason looked like he'd been shot. He tottered, his face pale, and the Iris message disappeared. "Bro, you all right?" Leo asked. "You know where she is?" "Yes," Jason said. "Sonoma Valley. Not far. Not by air." Piper turned to the ranger pilot, who'd been watching all this with an increasingly puzzled expression. "Ma'am," Piper said with her best smile. "You don't mind helping us one more time, do you?" "I don't mind," the pilot agreed. "We can't take a mortal into battle," Jason said. "It's too dangerous." He turned to Leo. "Do you think you could fly this thing?" "Um _" Leo's expression didn't exactly reassure Piper. But then he put his hand on the side of the helicopter, concentrating hard, as if listening to the machine. "Bell 412HP utility helicopter," Leo said. "Composite fourblade main rotor, cruising speed twenty-two knots, service ceiling twenty-thousand feet. The tank is near full. Sure, I can fly it." Piper smiled at the ranger again. "You don't have a problem with an under-aged unlicensed kid borrowing your copter, do you? We'll return it." "I-" The pilot nearly choked on the words, but she got them out: "I don't have a problem with that." Leo grinned. "Hop in, kids. Uncle Leo's gonna take you for a ride." FLYAHELICOPTER? SURE, WHYNOT. Leo had done plenty of crazier things that week. The sun was going down as they flew north over the Richmond Bridge, and Leo couldn't believe the day had gone so quickly. Once again, nothing like ADHD and a good fight to the death to make time fly. Piloting the chopper, he went back and forth between confidence and panic. If he didn't think about it, he found himself automatically flipping the right switches, checking the altimeter, easing back on the stick, and flying straight. If he allowed himself to consider what he was doing, he started freaking out. He imagined his Aunt Rosa yelling at him in Spanish, telling him he was a delinquent lunatic who was going to crash and burn. Part of him suspected she was right. "Going okay?" Piper asked from the copilot's seat. She sounded more nervous than he was, so Leo put on a brave face. "Aces," he said. "So what's the Wolf House?" Jason knelt between their seats. "An abandoned mansion in the Sonoma Valley.A demigod built it-Jack London." Leo couldn't place the name. "He an actor?" "Writer," Piper said. "Adventure stuff, right? Call of the Wild? White Fang?" "Yeah," Jason said. "He was a son of Mercury-I mean, Hermes. He was an adventurer, traveled the world. He was even a hobo for a while. Then he made a fortune writing. He bought a big ranch in the country and decided to build this huge mansion-the Wolf House." "Named that 'cause he wrote about wolves?" Leo guessed. "Partially," Jason said. "But the site, and the reason he wrote about wolves-he was dropping hints about his personal experience. There're a lot of holes in his life story-how he was born, who his dad was, why he wandered around so much -stuff you can only explain if you know he was a demigod." The bay slipped behind them, and the helicopter continued north. Ahead of them, yellow hills rolled out as far as Leo could see. "So Jack London went to Camp Half-Blood," Leo guessed. "No," Jason said. "No, he didn't." "Bro, you're freaking me out with the mysterious talk. Are you remembering your past or not?" "Pieces," Jason said. "Only pieces. None of it good. The Wolf House is on sacred ground. It's where London started his journey as a child-where he found out he was a demigod. That's why he returned there. He thought he could live there, claim that land, but it wasn't meant for him. The Wolf House was cursed. It burned in a fire a week before he and his wife were supposed to move in. A few years later, London died, and his ashes were buried on the site." "So," Piper said, "how do you know all this?" A shadow crossed Jason's face. Probably just a cloud, but Leo could swear the shape looked like an eagle. "I started my journey there too," Jason said. "It's a powerful place for demigods, a dangerous place. If Gaea can claim it, use its power to entomb Hera on the solstice and raise Porphyrion-that might be enough to awaken the earth goddess fully." Leo kept his hand on the joystick, guiding the chopper at full speed-racing toward the north. He could see some weather ahead-a spot of darkness like a cloudbank or a storm, right where they were going. Piper's dad had called him a hero earlier. And Leo couldn't believe some of the things he'd done-smacking around Cyclopes, disarming exploding doorbells, battling sixarmed ogres with construction equipment. They seemed like they had happened to another person. He was just Leo Valdez, an orphaned kid from Houston. He'd spent his life running away, and part of him still wanted to run. What was he thinking, flying toward a cursed mansion to fight more evil monsters? His mom's voice echoed in his head: Nothing is unfixable. Except the fact that you're gone forever, Leo thought. Seeing Piper and her dad back together had really driven that home. Even if Leo survived this quest and saved Hera, Leo wouldn't have any happy reunions. He wouldn't be going back to a loving family. He wouldn't see his mom. The helicopter shuddered. Metal creaked, and Leo could almost imagine the tapping was Morse code: Not the end. Not the end. He leveled out the chopper, and the creaking stopped. He was just hearing things. He couldn't dwell on his mom, or the idea that kept bugging him-that Gaea was bringing souls back from the Underworld-so why couldn't he make some good come out of it? Thinking like that would drive him crazy. He had a job to do. He let his instincts take over-just like flying the helicopter. If he thought about the quest too much, or what might happen afterward, he'd panic. The trick was not to think-just get through it. "Thirty minutes out," he told his friends, though he wasn't sure how he knew. "If you want to get some rest, now's a good time." Jason strapped himself into the back of the helicopter and passed out almost immediately. Piper and Leo stayed wideawake. After a few minutes of awkward silence, Leo said, "Your dad'll be fine, you know. Nobody's gonna mess with him with that crazy goat around." Piper glanced over, and Leo was struck by how much she'd changed. Not just physically. Her presence was stronger. She seemed more _ here. At Wilderness School she'd spent the semester trying not to be seen, hiding out in the back rowof the classroom, the back of the bus, the corner of the lunchroom as far as possible from the loud kids. Now she would be impossible to miss. It didn't matter what she was wearing -you'd have to look at her. "My dad," she said thoughtfully. "Yeah, I know. I was thinking about Jason. I'm worried about him." Leo nodded. The closer they got to that bank of dark clouds, the more Leo worried, too. "He's starting to remember. That's got to make him a little edgy." "But what if _ what if he's a different person?" Leo had had the same thought. If the Mist could affect their memories, could Jason's whole personality be an illusion, too? If their friend wasn't their friend, and they were heading into a cursed mansion-a dangerous place for demigods-what would happen if Jason's full memory came back in the middle of a battle? "Nah," Leo decided. "After all we've been through? I can't see it. We're a team. Jason can handle it." Piper smoothed her blue dress, which was tattered and burned from their fight on Mount Diablo. "I hope you're right. I need him _" She cleared her throat. "I mean I need to trust him_" "I know," Leo said. After seeing her dad break down, Leo understood Piper couldn't afford to lose Jason as well. She'd just watched Tristan McLean, her cool suave movie star dad, reduced to near insanity. Leo could barely stand to watch that, but for Piper-Wow, Leo couldn't even imagine. He figured that would make her insecure about herself, too. If weakness was inherited, she'd be wondering, could she break down the same way her dad did? "Hey, don't worry," Leo said. "Piper, you're the strongest, most powerful beauty queen I've ever met. You can trust yourself. For what it's worth, you can trust me too." The helicopter dipped in a wind shear, and Leo almost jumped out of his skin. He cursed and righted the chopper. Piper laughed nervously. "Trust you, huh?" "Ah, shut up, already." But he grinned at her, and for a second, it felt like he was just relaxing comfortably with a friend. Then they hit the storm clouds. AT FIRST,LEO THOUGHT ROCKS WERE pelting the windshield. Then he realized it was sleet. Frost built up around the edges of the glass, and slushy waves of ice blotted out his view. "An ice storm?" Piper shouted over the engine and the wind. "Is it supposed to be this cold in Sonoma?" Leo wasn't sure, but something about this storm seemed conscious, malevolent-like it was intentionally slamming them. Jason woke up quickly. He crawled forward, grabbing their seats for balance. "We've got to be getting close." Leo was too busy wrestling with the stick to reply. Suddenly it wasn't so easy to drive the chopper. Its movements turned sluggish and jerky. The whole machine shuddered in the icy wind. The helicopter probably hadn't been prepped for cold-weather flying. The controls refused to respond, and they started to lose altitude. Below them, the ground was a dark quilt of trees and fog. The ridge of a hill loomed in front of them and Leo yanked the stick, just clearing the treetops. "There!" Jason shouted. A small valley opened up before them, with the murky shape of a building in the middle. Leo aimed the helicopter straight for it. All around them were flashes of light that reminded Leo of the tracer fire at Midas's compound. Trees cracked and exploded at the edges of the clearing. Shapes moved through the mist. Combat seemed to be everywhere. He set down the helicopter in an icy field about fifty yards from the house and killed the engine. He was about to relax when he heard a whistling sound and saw a dark shape hurtling toward them out of the mist. "Out!" Leo screamed. They leaped from the helicopter and barely cleared the rotors before a massive BOOM shook the ground, knocking Leo off his feet and splattering ice all over him. He got up shakily and saw that the world's largest snowball-a chunk of snow, ice, and dirt the size of a garage -had completely flattened the Bell 412. "You all right?" Jason ran up to him, Piper at his side. They both looked fine except for being speckled with snow and mud. "Yeah." Leo shivered. "Guess we owe that ranger lady a new helicopter." Piper pointed south. "Fighting's over there." Then she frowned. "No _ it's all around us." She was right. The sounds of combat rang across the valley. The snow and mist made it hard to tell for sure, but there seemed to be a circle of fighting all around the Wolf House. Behind them loomed Jack London's dream home-a massive ruin of red and gray stones and rough-hewn timber beams. Leo could imagine how it had looked before it burned down-a combination log cabin and castle, like a billionaire lumberjack might build. But in the mist and sleet, the place had a lonely, haunted feel. Leo could totally believe the ruins were cursed. "Jason!" a girl's voice called. Thalia appeared from the fog, her parka caked with snow. Her bow was in her hand, and her quiver was almost empty. She ran toward them, but made it only a few steps before a six-armed ogre-one of the Earthborn-burst out of the stormbehind her, a raised club in each hand. "Look out!" Leo yelled. They rushed to help, but Thalia had it under control. She launched herself into a flip, notching an arrow as she pivoted like a gymnast and landed in a kneeling position. The ogre got a silver arrow right between the eyes and melted into a pile of clay. Thalia stood and retrieved her arrow, but the point had snapped off. "That was my last one." She kicked the pile of clay resentfully. "Stupid ogre." "Nice shot, though," Leo said. Thalia ignored him as usual (which no doubt meant she thought he was as cool as ever). She hugged Jason and nodded to Piper. "Just in time. My Hunters are holding a perimeter around the mansion, but we'll be overrun any minute." "By Earthborn?" Jason asked. "And wolves-Lycaon's minions." Thalia blew a fleck of ice off her nose. "Also storm spirits-" "But we gave them to Aeolus!" Piper protested. "Who tried to kill us," Leo reminded her. "Maybe he's helping Gaea again." "I don't know," Thalia said. "But the monsters keep reforming almost as fast as we can kill them. We took the Wolf House with no problem: surprised the guards and sent themstraight to Tartarus. But then this freak snowstorm blew in. Wave after wave of monsters started attacking. Now we're surrounded. I don't know who or what is leading the assault, but I think they planned this. It was a trap to kill anyone who tried to rescue Hera." "Where is she?" Jason asked. "Inside," Thalia said. "We tried to free her, but we can't figure out how to break the cage. It's only a few minutes until the sun goes down. Hera thinks that's the moment when Porphyrion will be reborn. Plus, most monsters are stronger at night. If we don't free Hera soon-" She didn't need to finish the thought. Leo, Jason, and Piper followed her into the ruined mansion. Jason stepped over the threshold and immediately collapsed. "Hey!" Leo caught him. "None of that, man. What's wrong? " "This place _" Jason shook his head. "Sorry _ It came rushing back to me." "So you have been here," Piper said. "We both have," Thalia said. Her expression was grim, like she was reliving someone's death. "This is where my momtook us when Jason was a child. She left him here, told me he was dead. He just disappeared." "She gave me to the wolves," Jason murmured. "At Hera's insistence. She gave me to Lupa." "That part I didn't know." Thalia frowned. "Who is Lupa?" An explosion shook the building. Just outside, a blue mushroom cloud billowed up, raining snowflakes and ice like a nuclear blast made of cold instead of heat. "Maybe this isn't the time for questions," Leo suggested. "Show us the goddess." Once inside, Jason seemed to get his bearings. The house was built in a giant U, and Jason led them between the two wings to an outside courtyard with an empty reflecting pool. At the bottom of the pool, just as Jason had described from his dream, two spires of rock and root tendrils had cracked through the foundation. One of the spires was much bigger-a solid dark mass about twenty feet high, and to Leo it looked like a stone body bag. Underneath the mass of fused tendrils he could make out the shape of a head, wide shoulders, a massive chest and arms, like the creature was stuck waist deep in the earth. No, not stuck-rising. On the opposite end of the pool, the other spire was smaller and more loosely woven. Each tendril was as thick as a telephone pole, with so little space between them that Leo doubted he could've gotten his arm through. Still, he could see inside.And in the center of the cage stood Tia Callida. She looked exactly like Leo remembered: dark hair covered with a shawl, the black dress of a widow, a wrinkled face with glinting, scary eyes. She didn't glow or radiate any sort of power. She looked like a regular mortal woman, his good old psychotic babysitter. Leo dropped into the pool and approached the cage. "Hola, Tia. Little bit of trouble?" She crossed her arms and sighed in exasperation. "Don't inspect me like I'm one of your machines, Leo Valdez. Get me out of here!" Thalia stepped next to him and looked at the cage with distaste-or maybe she was looking at the goddess. "We tried everything we could think of, Leo, but maybe my heart wasn't in it. If it was up to me, I'd just leave her in there." "Ohh, Thalia Grace," the goddess said. "When I get out of here, you'll be sorry you were ever born." "Save it!" Thalia snapped. "You've been nothing but a curse to every child of Zeus for ages. You sent a bunch of intestinally challenged cows after my friend Annabeth-" "She was disrespectful!" "You dropped a statue on my legs." "It was an accident!" "And you took my brother!" Thalia's voice cracked with emotion. "Here-on this spot. You ruined our lives. We should leave you to Gaea!" "Hey," Jason intervened. "Thalia-Sis-I know. But this isn't the time. You should help your Hunters." Thalia clenched her jaw. "Fine. For you, Jason. But if you ask me, she isn't worth it." Thalia turned, leaped out of the pool, and stormed from the building. Leo turned to Hera with grudging respect. "Intestinally challenged cows?" "Focus on the cage, Leo," she grumbled. "And Jason -you are wiser than your sister. I chose my champion well." "I'm not your champion, lady," Jason said. "I'm only helping you because you stole my memories and you're better than the alternative. Speaking of which, what's going on with that?" He nodded to the other spire that looked like the king-size granite body bag. Was Leo imagining it, or had it grown taller since they'd gotten here? "That, Jason," Hera said, "is the king of the giants being reborn." "Gross," Piper said. "Indeed," Hera said. "Porphyrion, the strongest of his kind. Gaea needed a great deal of power to raise him again -my power. For weeks I've grown weaker as my essence was used to grow him a new form." "So you're like a heat lamp," Leo guessed. "Or fertilizer." The goddess glared at him, but Leo didn't care. This old lady had been making his life miserable since he was a baby. He totally had rights to rag on her. "Joke all you wish," Hera said in a clipped tone. "But at sundown, it will be too late. The giant will awake. He will offer me a choice: marry him, or be consumed by the earth. And I cannot marry him. We will all be destroyed. And as we die, Gaea will awaken." Leo frowned at the giant's spire. "Can't we blow it up or something?" "Without me, you do not have the power," Hera said. "You might as well try to destroy a mountain." "Done that once today," Jason said. "Just hurry up and let me out!" Hera demanded. Jason scratched his head. "Leo, can you do it?" "I don't know." Leo tried not to panic. "Besides, if she's a goddess, why hasn't she busted herself out?" Hera paced furiously around her cage, cursing in Ancient Greek. "Use your brain, Leo Valdez. I picked you because you're intelligent. Once trapped, a god's power is useless. Your own father trapped me once in a golden chair. It was humiliating! I had to beg-b e g him for my freedom and apologize for throwing him off Olympus." "Sounds fair," Leo said. Hera gave him the godly stink-eye. "I've watched you since you were a child, son of Hephaestus, because I knew you could aid me at this moment. If anyone can find a way to destroy this abomination, it is you." "But it's not a machine. It's like Gaea thrust her hand out of the ground and _" Leo felt dizzy. The line of their prophecy came back to him: The forge and dove shall break the cage."Hold on. I do have an idea. Piper, I'm going to need your help.And we're going to need time." The air turned brittle with cold. The temperature dropped so fast, Leo's lips cracked and his breath changed to mist. Frost coated the walls of the Wolf House. Venti rushed in -but instead of winged men, these were shaped like horses, with dark storm-cloud bodies and manes that crackled with lightning. Some had silver arrows sticking out of their flanks. Behind them came red-eyed wolves and the six-armed Earthborn. Piper drew her dagger. Jason grabbed an ice-covered plank off the pool floor. Leo reached into his tool belt, but he was so shaken up, all he produced was a tin of breath mints. He shoved them back in, hoping nobody had noticed, and drew a hammer instead. One of the wolves padded forward. It was dragging a human-size statue by the leg. At the edge of the pool, the wolf opened its maw and dropped the statue for them to see-an ice sculpture of a girl, an archer with short spiky hair and a surprised look on her face. "Thalia!" Jason rushed forward, but Piper and Leo pulled him back. The ground around Thalia's statue was already webbed with ice. Leo feared if Jason touched her, he might freeze too. "Who did this?" Jason yelled. His body crackled with electricity. "I'll kill you myself!" From somewhere behind the monsters, Leo heard a girl's laughter, clear and cold. She stepped out of the mist in her snowy white dress, a silver crown atop her long black hair. She regarded them with those deep brown eyes Leo had thought were so beautiful inQuebec. "Bon soir, mes amis," said Khione, the goddess of snow. She gave Leo a frosty smile. "Alas, son of Hephaestus, you say you need time? I'm afraid time is one tool you do not have." AFTER THE FIGHT ONMOUNT DIABLO, Jason didn't think he could ever feel more afraid or devastated. Now his sister was frozen at his feet. He was surrounded by monsters. He'd broken his golden sword and replaced it with a piece of wood. He had approximately five minutes until the king of the giants busted out and destroyed them. Jason had already pulled his biggest ace, calling down Zeus's lightning when he'd fought Enceladus, and he doubted he'd have the strength or the cooperation from above to do it again. Which meant his only assets were one whiny imprisoned goddess, one sort-of girlfriend with a dagger, and Leo, who apparently thought he could defeat the armies of darkness with breath mints. On top of all this, Jason's worst memories were flooding back. He knew for certain he'd done many dangerous things in his life, but he'd never been closer to death than he was right now. The enemy was beautiful. Khione smiled, her dark eyes The enemy was beautiful. Khione smiled, her dark eyes glittering, as a dagger of ice grew in her hand. "What've you done?" Jason demanded. "Oh, so many things," the snow goddess purred. "Your sister's not dead, if that's what you mean. She and her Hunters will make fine toys for our wolves. I thought we'd defrost themone at a time and hunt them down for amusement. Let them be the prey for once." The wolves snarled appreciatively. "Yes, my dears." Khione kept her eyes on Jason. "Your sister almost killed their king, you know. Lycaon's off in a cave somewhere, no doubt licking his wounds, but his minions have joined us to take revenge for their master. And soon Porphyrion will arise, and we shall rule the world." "Traitor!" Hera shouted. "You meddlesome, D-list goddess! You aren't worthy to pour my wine, much less rule the world." Khione sighed. "Tiresome as ever, Queen Hera. I've been wanting to shut you up for millennia." Khione waved her hand, and ice encased the prison, sealing in the spaces between the earthen tendrils. "That's better," the snow goddess said. "Now, demigods, about your death-" "You're the one who tricked Hera into coming here," Jason said. "You gave Zeus the idea of closing Olympus." The wolves snarled, and the storm spirits whinnied, ready to attack, but Khione held up her hand. "Patience, my loves. If he wants to talk, what matter? The sun is setting, and time is on our side. Of course, Jason Grace. Like snow, my voice is quiet and gentle, and very cold. It's easy for me to whisper to the other gods, especially when I am only confirming their own deepest fears. I also whispered in Aeolus's ear that he should issue an order to kill demigods. It is a small service for Gaea, but I'm sure I will be well rewarded when her sons the giants come to power." "You could've killed us in Quebec," Jason said. "Why let us live?" Khione wrinkled her nose. "Messy business, killing you in my father's house, especially when he insists on meeting all visitors. I did try, you remember. It would've been lovely if he'd agreed to turn you to ice. But once he'd given you guarantee of safe passage, I couldn't openly disobey him. My father is an old fool. He lives in fear of Zeus and Aeolus, but he's still powerful. Soon enough, when my new masters have awakened, I will depose Boreas and take the throne of the North Wind, but not just yet. Besides, my father did have a point. Your quest was suicidal. I fully expected you to fail." "And to help us with that," Leo said, "you knocked our dragon out of the sky over Detroit. Those frozen wires in his head-that was your fault. You're gonna pay for that." "You're also the one who kept Enceladus informed about us," Piper added. "We've been plagued by snowstorms the whole trip." "Yes, I feel so close to all of you now!" Khione said. "Once you made it past Omaha, I decided to asked Lycaon to track you down so Jason could die here, at the Wolf House." Khione smiled at him. "You see, Jason, your blood spilled on this sacred ground will taint it for generations. Your demigod brethren will be outraged, especially when they find the bodies of these two from Camp Half-Blood. They'll believe the Greeks have conspired with giants. It will be _ delicious." Piper and Leo didn't seem to understand what she was saying. But Jason knew. His memories were returning enough for him to realize how dangerously effective Khione's plan could be. "You'll set demigods against demigods," he said. "It's so easy!" said Khione. "As I told you, I only encourage what you would do anyway." "But why?" Piper spread her hands. "Khione, you'll tear the world apart. The giants will destroy everything. You don't want that. Call off your monsters." Khione hesitated, then laughed. "Your persuasive powers are improving, girl. But I am a goddess. You can't charm-speak me. We wind gods are creatures of chaos! I'll overthrowAeolus and let the storms run free. If we destroy the mortal world, all the better! They never honored me, even in Greek times. Humans and their talk of global warming. Pah! I'll cool them down quickly enough. When we retake the ancient places, Iwill cover the Acropolis in snow." "The ancient places." Leo's eyes widened. "That's what Enceladus meant about destroy the roots of the gods. He Enceladus meant about destroy the roots of the gods. He meant Greece." "You could join me, son of Hephaestus," Khione said. "I know you find me beautiful. It would be enough for my plan if these other two were to die. Reject that ridiculous destiny the Fates have given you. Live and be my champion, instead. Your skills would be quite useful." Leo looked stunned. He glanced behind him, like Khione might be talking to somebody else. For a second Jason was worried. He figured Leo didn't have beautiful goddesses make him offers like this every day. Then Leo laughed so hard, he doubled over. "Yeah, join you. Right. Until you get bored of me and turn me into a Leosicle? Lady, nobody messes with my dragon and gets away with it. I can't believe I thought you were hot." Khione's face turned red. "Hot? You dare insult me? I amcold, Leo Valdez. Very, very cold." She shot a blast of wintry sleet at the demigods, but Leo held up his hand. A wall of fire roared to life in front of them, and the snow dissolved in a steamy cloud. Leo grinned. "See, lady, that's what happens to snow in Texas. It-freaking-melts." Khione hissed. "Enough of this. Hera is failing. Porphyrion is rising. Kill the demigods. Let them be our king's first meal!" Jason hefted his icy wooden plank-a stupid weapon to die fighting with-and the monsters charged. A WOLF LAUNCHED ITSELFAT JASON. He stepped back and swung his scrap wood into the beast's snout with a satisfying crack. Maybe only silver could kill it, but a good old-fashioned board could still give it a Tylenol headache. He turned toward the sound of hooves and saw a stormspirit horse bearing down on him. Jason concentrated and summoned the wind. Just before the spirit could trample him, Jason launched himself into the air, grabbed the horse's smoky neck, and pirouetted onto its back. The storm spirit reared. It tried to shake Jason, then tried to dissolve into mist to lose him; but somehow Jason stayed on. He willed the horse to remain in solid form, and the horse seemed unable to refuse. Jason could feel it fighting against him. He could sense its raging thoughts-complete chaos straining to break free. It took all Jason's willpower to impose his own wishes and bring the horse under control. He thought about Aeolus, overseeing thousands and thousands of spirits like this, some much worse. No wonder the Master of the Winds had gone a little mad after centuries of that pressure. But Jason had only one spirit to master, and he had to win. "You're mine now," Jason said. The horse bucked, but Jason held fast. Its mane flickered as it circled around the empty pool, its hooves causing miniature thunderstorms-tempests-whenever they touched. "Tempest?" Jason said. "Is that your name?" The horse spirit shook its mane, evidently pleased to be recognized. "Fine," Jason said. "Now, let's fight." He charged into battle, swinging his icy piece of wood, knocking aside wolves and plunging straight through other venti. Tempest was a strong spirit, and every time he plowed through one of his brethren, he discharged so much electricity, the other spirit vaporized into a harmless cloud of mist. Through the chaos, Jason caught glimpses of his friends. Piper was surrounded by Earthborn, but she seemed to be holding her own. She was so impressive-looking as she fought, almost glowing with beauty, that the Earthborn stared at her in awe, forgetting that they were supposed to kill her. They'd lower their clubs and watch dumbfounded as she smiled and charged them. They'd smile back-until she sliced them apart with her dagger, and they melted into mounds of mud. Leo had taken on Khione herself. While fighting a goddess should've been suicide, Leo was the right man for the job. She kept summoning ice daggers to throw at him, blasts of winter air, tornadoes of snow. Leo burned through all of it. His whole body flickered with red tongues of flame like he'd been doused with gasoline. He advanced on the goddess, using two silver-tipped ball-peen hammers to smash any monsters that got in his way. Jason realized that Leo was the only reason they were still alive. His fiery aura was heating up the whole courtyard, countering Khione's winter magic. Without him, they would've been frozen like the Hunters long ago. Wherever Leo went, ice melted off the stones. Even Thalia started to defrost a little when Leo stepped near her. Khione slowly backed away. Her expression went fromenraged to shocked to slightly panicked as Leo got closer. Jason was running out of enemies. Wolves lay in dazed heaps. Some slunk away into the ruins, yelping from their wounds. Piper stabbed the last Earthborn, who toppled to the ground in a pile of sludge. Jason rode Tempest through the last ventus, breaking it into vapor. Then he wheeled around and saw Leo bearing down on the goddess of snow. "You're too late," Khione snarled. "He's awake! And don't think you've won anything here, demigods. Hera's plan will never work. You'll be at each other's throats before you can ever stop us." Leo set his hammers ablaze and threw them at the goddess, but she turned into snow-a white powdery image of herself. Leo's hammers slammed into the snow woman, breaking it into a steaming mound of mush. Piper was breathing hard, but she smiled up at Jason. "Nice horse." Tempest reared on his hind legs, arcing electricity across his hooves.A complete show-off. Then Jason heard a cracking sound behind him. The melting ice on Hera's cage sloughed off in a curtain of slush, and the goddess called, "Oh, don't mind me! Just the queen of the heavens, dying over here!" Jason dismounted and told Tempest to stay put. The three demigods jumped into the pool and ran to the spire. Leo frowned. "Uh, Tia Callida, are you getting shorter?" "No, you dolt! The earth is claiming me. Hurry!" As much as Jason disliked Hera, what he saw inside the cage alarmed him. Not only was Hera sinking, the ground was rising around her like water in a tank. Liquid rock had already covered her shins. "The giant wakes!" Hera warned. "You only have seconds!" "On it," Leo said. "Piper, I need your help. Talk to the cage. " "What?" she said. "Talk to it. Use everything you've got. Convince Gaea to sleep. Lull her into a daze. Just slow her down, try to get the tendrils to loosen while I-" "Right!" Piper cleared her throat and said, "Hey, Gaea. Nice night, huh? Boy, I'm tired. How about you? Ready for some sleep?" The more she talked, the more confident she sounded. Jason felt his own eyes getting heavy, and he had to force himself not to focus on her words. It seemed to have some effect on the cage. The mud was rising more slowly. The tendrils seemed to soften just a little-becoming more like tree root than rock. Leo pulled a circular saw out of his tool belt. How it fit in there, Jason had no idea. Then Leo looked at the cord and grunted in frustration. "I don't have anywhere to plug it in!" The spirit horse Tempest jumped into the pit and whinnied. "Really?" Jason asked. Tempest dipped his head and trotted over to Leo. Leo looked dubious, but he held up the plug, and a breeze whisked it into the horse's flank. Lighting sparked, connecting with the prongs of the plug, and the circular saw whirred to life. "Sweet!" Leo grinned. "Your horse comes withAC outlets!" Their good mood didn't last long. On the other side of the pool, the giant's spire crumbled with a sound like a tree snapping in half. Its outer sheath of tendrils exploded from the top down, raining stone and wood shards as the giant shook himself free and climbed out of the earth. Jason hadn't thought anything could be scarier than Enceladus. He was wrong. Porphyrion was even taller, and even more ripped. He didn't radiate heat, or show any signs of breathing fire, but there was something more terrible about him-a kind of strength, even magnetism, as if the giant were so huge and dense he had his own gravitational field. Like Enceladus, the giant king was humanoid from the waist up, clad in bronze armor, and from the waist down he had scaly dragon's legs; but his skin was the color of lima beans. His hair was green as summer leaves, braided in long locks and decorated with weapons-daggers, axes, and full-size swords, some of them bent and bloody-maybe trophies taken from demigods eons before. When the giant opened his eyes, they were blank white, like polished marble. He took a deep breath. "Alive!" he bellowed. "Praise to Gaea!" Jason made a heroic little whimpering sound he hoped his friends couldn't hear. He was very sure no demigod could solo this guy. Porphyrion could lift mountains. He could crush Jason with one finger. "Leo," Jason said. "Huh?" Leo's mouth was wide open. Even Piper seemed dazed. "You guys keep working," Jason said. "Get Hera free!" "What are you going to do?" Piper asked. "You can't seriously-" "Entertain a giant?" Jason said. "I've got no choice." "Excellent!" the giant roared as Jason approached. "An appetizer! Who are you-Hermes? Ares?" Jason thought about going with that idea, but something told him not to. "I'm JasonGrace," he said. "Son of Jupiter." Those white eyes bored into him. Behind him, Leo's circular saw whirred, and Piper talked to the cage in soothing tones, trying to keep the fear out of her voice. Porphyrion threw back his head and laughed. "Outstanding!" He looked up at the cloudy night sky. "So, Zeus, you sacrifice a son to me? The gesture is appreciated, but it will not save you." The sky didn't even rumble. No help from above. Jason was on his own. He dropped his makeshift club. His hands were covered in splinters, but that didn't matter now. He had to buy Leo and Piper some time, and he couldn't do that without a proper weapon. It was time to act a whole lot more confident than he felt. "If you knew who Iwas," Jason yelled up at the giant, "you'd be worried about me, not my father. I hope you enjoyed your two and a half minutes of rebirth, giant, because I'm going to send you right back to Tartarus." The giant's eyes narrowed. He planted one foot outside the pool and crouched to get a better look at his opponent. "So _ we'll start by boasting, will we? Just like old times! Very well, demigod. I am Porphryion, king of the giants, son of Gaea. In olden times, I rose from Tatarus, the abyss of my father, to challenge the gods. To start the war, I stole Zeus's queen." He grinned at the goddess's cage. "Hello, Hera." "My husband destroyed you once, monster!" Hera said. "He'll do it again!" "But he didn't, my dear! Zeus wasn't powerful enough to kill me. He had to rely on a puny demigod to help, and even then, we almost won. This time, we will complete what we started. Gaea is waking. She has provisioned us with many fine servants. Our armies will shake the earth-and we will destroy you at the roots." "You wouldn't dare," Hera said, but she was weakening. Jason could hear it in her voice. Piper kept whispering to the cage, and Leo kept sawing, but the earth was still rising inside Hera's prison, covering her up to her waist. "Oh, yes," the giant said. "The Titans sought to attack your new home in New York. Bold, but ineffective. Gaea is wiser and more patient. And we, her greatest children, are much, much stronger than Kronos. We know how to kill you Olympians once and for all. You must be dug up completely like rotten trees-your eldest roots torn out and burned." The giant frowned at Piper and Leo, as if he'd just noticed them working at the cage. Jason stepped forward and yelled to get back Porphyrion's attention. "You said a demigod killed you," he shouted. "How, if we're so puny?" "Ha! You think Iwould explain it to you? Iwas created to be Zeus's replacement, born to destroy the lord of the sky. I shall take his throne. I shall take his wife-or, if she will not have me, I will let the earth consume her life force. What you see before you, child, is only my weakened form. Iwill grow stronger by the hour, until I am invincible. But I am already quite capable of smashing you to a grease spot!" He rose to his full height and held out his hand. A twentyfoot spear shot from the earth. He grasped it, then stomped the ground with his dragon's feet. The ruins shook. All around the courtyard, monsters started to regather-storm spirits, wolves, and Earthborn, all answering the giant king's call. "Great," Leo muttered. "We needed more enemies." "Hurry," Hera said. "I know!" Leo snapped. "Go to sleep, cage," Piper said. "Nice, sleepy cage. Yes, I'm talking to a bunch of earthen tendrils. This isn't weird at all." Porphyrion raked his spear across the top of the ruins, destroying a chimney and spraying wood and stone across the courtyard. "So, child of Zeus! I have finished my boasting. Nowit's your turn. What were you saying about destroying me?" Jason looked at the ring of monsters, waiting impatiently for their master's order to tear them to shreds. Leo's circular saw kept whirring, and Piper kept talking, but it seemed hopeless. Hera's cage was almost completely filled with earth. "I'm the son of Jupiter!" he shouted, and just for effect, he summoned the winds, rising a few feet off the ground. "I'm a child of Rome, consul to demigods, praetor of the First Legion." Jason didn't know quite what he was saying, but he rattled off the words like he'd said them many times before. He held out his arms, showing the tattoo of the eagle and SPQR, and to his surprise the giant seemed to recognize it. For a moment, Porphyrion actually looked uneasy. "I slew the Trojan sea monster," Jason continued. "I toppled the black throne of Kronos, and destroyed the Titan Krios with my own hands. And now I'm going to destroy you, Porphyrion, and feed you to your own wolves." "Wow, dude," Leo muttered. "You been eating red meat?" Jason launched himself at the giant, determined to tear him apart. The idea of fighting a forty-foot-tall immortal bare handed was so ridiculous, even the giant seemed surprised. Half flying, half leaping, Jason landed on the giant's scaly reptilian knee and climbed up the giant's arm before Porphyrion even realized what had happened. "You dare?" the giant bellowed. Jason reached his shoulders and ripped a sword out of the giant's weapon-filled braids. He yelled, "For Rome!" and drove the sword into the nearest convenient target-the giant's massive ear. Lightning streaked out of the sky and blasted the sword, throwing Jason free. He rolled when he hit the ground. When he looked up, the giant was staggering. His hair was on fire, and the side of his face was blackened from lightning. The sword had splintered in his ear. Golden ichor ran down his jaw. The other weapons were sparking and smoldering in his braids. Porphyrion almost fell. The circle of monsters let out a collective growl and moved forward-wolves and ogres fixing their eyes on Jason. "No!" Porphyrion yelled. He regained his balance and glared at the demigod. "Iwill kill him myself." The giant raised his spear and it began to glow. "You want to play with lightning, boy? You forget. I am the bane of Zeus. I was created to destroy your father, which means I know exactly what will kill you." Something in Porphyrion's voice told Jason he wasn't bluffing. Jason and his friends had had a good run. The three of them had done amazing things. Yeah, even heroic things. But as the giant raised his spear, Jason knew there was no way he could deflect this strike. This was the end. "Got it!" Leo yelled. "Sleep!" Piper said, so forcefully, the nearest wolves fell to the ground and began snoring. The stone and wood cage crumbled. Leo had sawed through the base of the thickest tendril and apparently cut off the cage's connection to Gaea. The tendrils turned to dust. The mud around Hera disintegrated. The goddess grew in size, glowing with power. "Yes!" the goddess said. She threw off her black robes to reveal a white gown, her arms bedecked with golden jewelry. Her face was both terrible and beautiful, and a golden crown glowed in her long black hair. "Now I shall have my revenge!" The giant Porphyrion backed away. He said nothing, but he gave Jason one last look of hatred. His message was clear: Another time. Then he slammed his spear against the earth, and the giant disappeared into the ground like he'd dropped down a chute. Around the courtyard, monsters began to panic and retreat, but there was no escape for them. Hera glowed brighter. She shouted, "Cover your eyes, my heroes!" But Jason was too much in shock. He understood too late. He watched as Hera turned into a supernova, exploding in a ring of force that vaporized every monster instantly. Jason fell, light searing into his mind, and his last thought was that his body was burning. "JASON!" Piper kept calling his name as she held him, though she'd almost lost hope. He'd been unconscious for two minutes now. His body was steaming, his eyes rolled back in his head. She couldn't tell if he was even breathing. "It's no use, child." Hera stood over them in her simple black robes and shawl. Piper hadn't seen the goddess go nuclear. Thankfully she'd closed her eyes, but she could see the aftereffects. Every vestige of winter was gone from the valley. No signs of battle, either. The monsters had been vaporized. The ruins had been restored to what they were before-still ruins, but with no evidence that they'd been overrun by a horde of wolves, stormspirits, and six-armed ogres. Even the Hunters had been revived. Most waited at a respectful distance in the meadow, but Thalia knelt by Piper's side, her hand on Jason's forehead. Thalia glared up at the goddess. "This is your fault. Do something!" "Do not address me that way, girl. I am the queen-" "Fix him!" Hera's eyes flickered with power. "I did warn him. I would never intentionally hurt the boy. He was to be my champion. I told them to close their eyes before Irevealed my true form." "Um _" Leo frowned. "True form is bad, right? So why did you do it?" "I unleashed my power to help you, fool!" Hera cried. "I became pure energy so I could disintegrate the monsters, restore this place, and even save these miserable Hunters from the ice." "But mortals can't look upon you in that form!" Thalia shouted. "You've killed him!" Leo shook his head in dismay. "That's what our prophecy meant. Death unleash, through Hera's rage. Come on, lady. You're a goddess. Do some voodoo magic on him! Bring himback." Piper half heard their conversation, but mostly she was focused on Jason's face. "He's breathing!" she announced. "Impossible," Hera said. "I wish it were true, child, but no mortal has ever-" "Jason," Piper called, putting every bit of her willpower into his name. She could not lose him. "Listen to me. You can do this. Come back. You're going to be fine." Nothing happened. Had she imagined his breath stirring? "Healing is not a power ofAphrodite," Hera said regretfully. "Even I cannot fix this, girl. His mortal spirit-" "Jason," Piper said again, and she imagined her voice resonating through the earth, all the way down to the Underworld. "Wake up." He gasped, and his eyes flew open. For a moment they were full of light-glowing pure gold. Then the light faded and his eyes were normal again. "What-what happened?" "Impossible!" Hera said. Piper wrapped him in a hug until he groaned, "Crushing me." "Sorry," she said, so relieved, she laughed while wiping a tear from her eye. Thalia gripped her brother's hand. "How do you feel?" "Hot," he muttered. "Mouth is dry. And I saw something_really terrible." "That was Hera," Thalia grumbled. "Her Majesty, the Loose Cannon." "That's it, Thalia Grace," said the goddess. "I will turn you into an aardvark, so help me-" "Stop it, you two," Piper said.Amazingly, they both shut up. Piper helped Jason to his feet and gave him the last nectar from their supplies. "Now _" Piper faced Thalia and Hera. "Hera-Your Majesty-we couldn't have rescued you without the Hunters. And Thalia, you never would've seen Jason again-I wouldn't have met him-if it weren't for Hera. You two make nice, because we've got bigger problems." They both glared at her, and for three long seconds, Piper wasn't sure which one of them was going to kill her first. Finally Thalia grunted. "You've got spirit, Piper." She pulled a silver card from her parka and tucked it into the pocket of Piper's snowboarding jacket. "You ever want to be a Hunter, call me. We could use you." Hera crossed her arms. "Fortunately for this Hunter, you have a point, daughter of Aphrodite." She assessed Piper, as if seeing her clearly for the time. "You wondered, Piper, why I chose you for this quest, why I didn't reveal your secret in the beginning, even when I knew Enceladus was using you. I must admit, until this moment I was not sure. Something told me you would be vital to the quest. Now I see I was right. You're even stronger than I realized. And you are correct about the dangers to come. We must work together." Piper's face felt warm. She wasn't sure how to respond to Hera's compliment, but Leo stepped in. "Yeah," he said, "I don't suppose that Porphyrion guy just melted and died, huh?" "No," Hera agreed. "By saving me, and saving this place, you prevented Gaea from waking. You have bought us some time. But Porphyrion has risen. He simply knew better than to stay here, especially since he has not yet regained his full power. Giants can only be killed by a combination of god and demigod, working together. Once you freed me-" "He ran away," Jason said. "But to where?" Hera didn't answer, but a sense of dread washed over Piper. She remembered what Porphyrion had said about killing the Olympians by pulling up their roots. Greece. She looked at Thalia's grim expression, and guessed the Hunter had come to the same conclusion. "I need to find Annabeth," Thalia said. "She has to knowwhat's happened here." "Thalia _" Jason gripped her hand. "We never got to talk about this place, or-" "I know." Her expression softened. "I lost you here once. I don't want to leave you again. But we'll meet soon. I'll rendezvous with you back at Camp Half-Blood." She glanced at Hera. "You'll see them there safely? It's the least you can do." "It's not your place to tell me-" "Queen Hera," Piper interceded. The goddess sighed. "Fine. Yes. Just off with you, Hunter!" Thalia gave Jason a hug and said her good-byes. When the Hunters were gone, the courtyard seemed strangely quiet. The dry reflecting pool showed no sign of the earthen tendrils that had brought back the giant king or imprisoned Hera. The night sky was clear and starry. The wind rustled in the redwoods. Piper thought about that night in Oklahoma when she and her dad had slept in Grandpa Tom's front yard. She thought about the night on the Wilderness School dorm roof, when Jason had kissed her-in her Mist-altered memories, anyway. "Jason, what happened to you here?" she asked. "I mean -I know your mom abandoned you here. But you said it was sacred ground for demigods. Why? What happened after you were on your own?" Jason shook his head uneasily. "It's still murky. The wolves _" "You were given a destiny," Hera said. "You were given into my service." Jason scowled. "Because you forced my mom to do that. You couldn't stand knowing Zeus had two children with my mom. Knowing that he'd fallen for her twice. I was the price you demanded for leaving the rest of my family alone. " "It was the right choice for you as well, Jason," Hera insisted. "The second time your mother managed to snare Zeus's affections, it was because she imagined him in a different aspect-the aspect of Jupiter. Never before had this happened-two children, Greek and Roman, born into the same family. You had to be separated from Thalia. This is where all demigods of your kind start their journey." "Of his kind?" Piper asked. "She means Roman," Jason said. "Demigods are left here. We meet the she-wolf goddess, Lupa, the same immortal wolf that raised Romulus and Remus." Hera nodded. "And if you are strong enough, you live." "But _" Leo looked mystified. "What happened after that? Imean, Jason never made it to camp." "Not to Camp Half-Blood, no," Hera agreed. Piper felt as if the sky were spiraling above her, making her dizzy. "You went somewhere else. That's where you've been all these years. Somewhere else for demigods-but where?" Jason turned to the goddess. "The memories are coming back, but not the location. You're not going to tell me, are you?" "No," Hera said. "That is part of your destiny, Jason. You must find your own way back. But when you do _ you will unite two great powers. You will give us hope against the giants, and more importantly-against Gaea herself." "You want us to help you," Jason said, "but you're holding back information." "Giving you answers would make those answers invalid," Hera said. "That is the way of the Fates. You must forge your own path for it to mean anything. Already, you three have surprised me. Iwould not have thought it possible _" The goddess shook her head. "Suffice to say, you have performed well, demigods. But this is only the beginning. Nowyou must return to Camp Half-Blood, where you will begin planning for the next phase." "Which you won't tell us about," Jason grumped. "And I suppose you destroyed my nice storm spirit horse, so we'll have to walk home?" Hera waved aside the question. "Storm spirits are creatures of chaos. I did not destroy that one, though I have no idea where he went, or whether you'll see him again. But there is an easier way home for you. As you have done me a great service, so I can help you-at least this once. Farewell, demigods, for now." The world turned upside down, and Piper almost blacked out. When she could see straight again, she was back at camp, in the dining pavilion, in the middle of dinner. They were standing on the Aphrodite cabin's table, and Piper had one foot in Drew's pizza. Sixty campers rose at once, gawking at them in astonishment. Whatever Hera had done to shoot them across the country, it wasn't good for Piper's stomach. She could barely control her nausea. Leo wasn't so lucky. He jumped off the table, ran to the nearest bronze brazier, and threw up in it -which was probably not a great burnt offering for the gods. "Jason?" Chiron trotted forward. No doubt the old centaur had seen thousands of years' worth of weird stuff, but even he looked totally flabbergasted. "What-How-?" The Aphrodite campers stared up at Piper with their mouths open. Piper figured she must look awful. " Hi," s h e s aid, a s c a s u ally a s s h e c o uld. " W e'r e b a c k." PIPERDIDN'TREMEMBERMUCHABOUT the rest of the night. They told their story and answered a million questions from the other campers, but finally Chiron saw how tired they were and ordered them to bed. It felt so good to sleep on a real mattress, and Piper was so exhausted, she crashed immediately, which spared her any worry about what it would be like returning to the Aphrodite cabin. The next morning she woke in her bunk, feeling reinvigorated. The sun came through the windows along with a pleasant breeze. It might've been spring instead of winter. Birds sang. Monsters howled in the woods. Breakfast smells wafted from the dining pavilion-bacon, pancakes, and all sorts of wonderful things. Drew and her gang were frowning down at her, their arms crossed. "Morning." Piper sat up and smiled. "Beautiful day." "You're going to make us late for breakfast," Drew said, "which means you get to clean the cabin for inspection." A week ago, Piper would've either punched Drew in the face, or hidden back under her covers. Now she thought about the Cyclopes in Detroit, Medea in Chicago, Midas turning her to gold in Omaha. Looking at Drew, who used to bother her, Piper laughed. Drew's smug expression crumbled. She backed up, then remembered she was supposed to be angry. "What are you-" "Challenging you," Piper said. "How about noon in the arena? You can choose the weapons." She got out of bed, stretched leisurely, and beamed at her cabinmates. She spotted Mitchell and Lacy, who'd helped her pack for the quest. They were smiling tentatively, their eyes flitting from Piper to Drew like this might be a very interesting tennis game. "I missed you guys!" Piper announced. "We're going to have a great time when I'm senior counselor." Drew turned bug juice red. Even her closest lieutenants looked a little nervous. This wasn't in their script. "You-" Drew spluttered. "You ugly little witch! I've been here the longest. You can't just-" "Challenge you?" Piper said. "Sure, I can. Camp rules: I've been claimed by Aphrodite. I've completed a quest, which is one more than you've completed. If I feel I can do a better job, I can challenge you. Unless you just want to step down. Did I get all that right, Mitchell?" "Just right, Piper." Mitchell was grinning. Lacy was bouncing up and down like she was trying to achieve liftoff. A few of the other kids started to grin, as if they were enjoying the different colors Drew's face was turning. "Step down?" Drew shrieked. "You're crazy!" Piper shrugged. Then fast as a viper she pulled Katoptris from under her pillow, unsheathed the dagger, and thrust the point under Drew's chin. Everybody else backed up fast. One guy crashed into a makeup table and sent up a plume of pink powder. "A duel, then," Piper said cheerfully. "If you don't want to wait until noon, now is fine. You've turned this cabin into a dictatorship, Drew. Silena Beauregard knew better than that. Aphrodite is about love and beauty. B e i n g loving. Spreadingbeauty. Good friends. Good times. Good deeds. Not just looking good. Silena made mistakes, but in the end she stood by her friends. That's why she was a hero. I'm going to set things right, and I've got a feeling Mom will be on my side. Want to find out?" Drew went cross-eyed looking down the blade of Piper's dagger. A second passed. Then two. Piper didn't care. She was absolutely happy and confident. It must've shown in her smile. "I _ step down," Drew grumbled. "But if you think I'm ever going to forget this, McLean-" "Oh, I hope you won't," Piper said. "Now, run along to the dining pavilion, and explain to Chiron why we're late. There's been a change of leadership." Drew backed to the door. Even her closest lieutenants didn't follow her. She was about to leave when Piper said, "Oh, and Drew, honey?" The former counselor looked back reluctantly. "In case you think I'm not a true daughter of Aphrodite," Piper said, "don't even look at Jason Grace. He may not knowit yet, but he's mine. If you even try to make a move, I will load you into a catapult and shoot you across Long Island Sound." Drew turned around so fast, she ran into the doorframe. Then she was gone. The cabin was silent. The other campers stared at Piper. This was the part she was unsure of. She didn't want to rule by fear. She wasn't like Drew, but she didn't know if they'd accept her. Then, spontaneously, the Aphrodite campers cheered so loudly, they must've been heard all across camp. They herded Piper out of the cabin, raised her on their shoulders, and carried her all the way to the dining pavilion-still in her pajamas, her hair still a mess, but she didn't care. She'd never felt better. By afternoon, Piper had changed into comfortable camp clothes and led the Aphrodite cabin through their morning activities. She was ready for free time. Some of the buzz of her victory had faded because she had an appointment at the Big House. Chiron met her on the front porch in human form, compacted into his wheelchair. "Come inside, my dear. The video conference is ready." The only computer at camp was in Chiron's office, and the whole room was shielded in bronze plating. "Demigods and technology don't mix," Chiron explained. "Phone calls, texting, even browsing the Internet-all these things can attract monsters. Why, just this fall at a school in Cincinnati, we had to rescue a young hero who Googled the gorgons and got a little more than he bargained for, but never mind that. Here at camp, you're protected. Still _ we try to be cautious. You'll only be able to talk for a few minutes." "Got it," Piper said. "Thank you, Chiron." He smiled and wheeled himself out of the office. Piper hesitated before clicking the call button. Chiron's office had a cluttered, cozy feel. One wall was covered with T-shirts fromdifferent conventions-party ponies '09 vegas, party ponies '10 honolulu, et cetera. Piper didn't know who the Party Ponies were, but judging from the stains, scorch marks, and weapon holes in the T-shirts, they must've had some pretty wild meetings. On the shelf over Chiron's desk sat an old-fashioned boom box with cassette tapes labeled "Dean Martin" and "Frank Sinatra" and "Greatest Hits of the 40s." Chiron was so old, Piper wondered if that meant 1940s, 1840s, or maybe just A.D. 40. But most of the office's wall space was plastered with photos of demigods, like a hall of fame. One of the newer shots showed a teenage guy with dark hair and green eyes. Since he stood arm in arm with Annabeth, Piper assumed the guy must be Percy Jackson. In some of the older photos, she recognized famous people: businessmen, athletes, even some actors that her dad knew. "Unbelievable," she muttered. Piper wondered if her photo would go on that wall someday. For the first time, she felt like she was part of something bigger than herself. Demigods had been around for centuries. Whatever she did, she did for all of them. She took a deep breath and made the call. The video screen popped up. Gleeson Hedge grinned at her from her dad's office. "Seen the news?" "Kind of hard to miss," Piper said. "I hope you know what you're doing." Chiron had shown her a newspaper at lunch. Her dad's mysterious return from nowhere had made the front page. His personal assistant Jane had been fired for covering up his disappearance and failing to notify the police. A new staff had been hired and personally vetted by Tristan McLean's "life coach," Gleeson Hedge. According to the paper, Mr. McLean claimed to have no memory of the last week, and the media was totally eating up the story. Some thought it was a clever marketing ploy for a movie-maybe McLean was going to play an amnesiac? Some thought he'd been kidnapped by terrorists, or rabid fans, or had heroically escaped fromransom seekers using his incredible King of Sparta fighting skills. Whatever the truth, Tristan McLean was more famous than ever. "It's going great," Hedge promised. "But don't worry. We're going to keep him out of the public eye for the next month or so until things cool down. Your dad's got more important things to do-like resting, and talking to his daughter." "Don't get too comfortable out there in Hollywood, Gleeson," Piper said. Hedge snorted. "You kidding? These people make Aeolus look sane. I'll be back as soon as I can, but your dad's gotta get back on his feet first. He's a good guy. Oh, and by the way, I took care of that other little matter. The Park Service in the Bay Area just got an anonymous gift of a new helicopter. And that ranger pilot who helped us? She's got a very lucrative offer to fly for Mr. McLean." "Thanks, Gleeson," Piper said. "For everything." "Yeah, well. I don't try to be awesome. It just comes natural. Speaking ofAeolus's place, meet your dad's new assistant." Hedge was nudged out of the way, and a pretty young lady grinned into the camera. "Mellie?" Piper stared, but it was definitely her: the aura who'd helped them escape from Aeolus's fortress. "You're working for my dad now?" "Isn't it great?" "Does he know you're a-you know-wind spirit?" "Oh, no. But I love this job. It's-um-a breeze." Piper couldn't help but laugh. "I'm glad. That's awesome. But where-" "Just a sec." Mellie kissed Gleeson on the cheek. "Come on, you old goat. Stop hogging the screen." "What?" Hedge demanded. But Mellie steered him away and called, "Mr. McLean? She's on!" A second later, Piper's dad appeared. He broke into a huge grin. "Pipes!" He looked great-back to normal, with his sparkling brown eyes, his half-day beard, his confident smile, and his newly trimmed hair like he was ready to shoot a scene. Piper was relieved, but she also felt a little sad. Back to normal wasn't necessarily what she'd wanted. In her mind, she started the clock. On a normal call like this, on a workday, she hardly ever got her dad's attention for longer than thirty seconds. "Hey," she said weakly. "You feeling okay?" "Honey, I'm so sorry to worry you with this disappearance business. I don't know _" His smile wavered, and she could tell he was trying to remember-grasping for a memory that should have been there, but wasn't. "I'm not sure what happened, honestly. But I'm fine. Coach Hedge has been a godsend." "A godsend," she repeated. Funny choice of words. "He told me about your new school," Dad said. "I'm sorry the Wilderness School didn't work out, but you were right. Jane was wrong. Iwas a fool to listen to her." Ten seconds left, maybe. But at least her dad sounded sincere, like he really did feel remorseful. "You don't remember anything?" she said, a bit wistfully. "Of course I do," he said. A chill went down her neck. "You do?" "I remember that I love you," he said. "And I'm proud of you.Are you happy at your new school?" Piper blinked. She wasn't going to cry now. After all she'd been through, that would be ridiculous. "Yeah, Dad. It's more like a camp, not a school, but _ Yeah, I think I'll be happy here." "Call me as often as you can," he said. "And come home for Christmas.And Pipes _" "Yes?" He touched the screen as if trying to reach through with his hand. "You're a wonderful young lady. I don't tell you that often enough. You remind me so much of your mother. She'd be proud. And Grandpa Tom"-he chuckled-"he always said you'd be the most powerful voice in our family. You're going to outshine me some day, you know. They're going to remember me as Piper McLean's father, and that's the best legacy I can imagine." Piper tried to answer, but she was afraid she'd break down. She just touched his fingers on the screen and nodded. Mellie said something in the background, and her dad sighed. "Studio calling. I'm sorry, honey." And he did sound genuinely annoyed to go. "It's okay, Dad," she managed. "Love you." He winked. Then the video call went black. Forty-five seconds? Maybe a full minute. Piper smiled.A small improvement, but it was progress. At the commons area, she found Jason relaxing on a bench, a basketball between his feet. He was sweaty from working out, but he looked great in his orange tank top and shorts. His various scars and bruises from the quest were healing, thanks to some medical attention from the Apollo cabin. His arms and legs were well muscled and tan-distracting as always. His close-cropped blond hair caught the afternoon light so it looked like it was turning to gold, Midas style. "Hey," he said. "How did it go?" It took her a second to focus on his question. "Hmm? Oh, yeah. Fine." She sat next to him and they watched the campers going back and forth. A couple of Demeter girls were playing tricks on two of the Apollo guys-making grass grow around their ankles as they shot baskets. Over at the camp store, the Hermes kids were putting up a sign that read: flying shoes, slightly used, 50% off today! Ares kids were lining their cabin with fresh barbed wire. The Hypnos cabin was snoring away. A normal day at camp. Meanwhile, the Aphrodite kids were watching Piper and Jason, and trying to pretend they weren't. Piper was pretty sure she saw money change hands, like they were placing bets on a kiss. "Get any sleep?" she asked him. He looked at her as if she'd been reading his thoughts. "Not much. Dreams." "About your past?" He nodded. She didn't push him. If he wanted to talk, that was fine, but she knew him better than to press the subject. She didn't even worry that her knowledge of him was mostly based on three months of false memories. You can sense possibilities, her mother had said. And Piper was determined to make those possibilities a reality. Jason spun his basketball. "It's not good news," he warned. "My memories aren't good for-for any of us." Piper was pretty sure he'd been about to say for us-as in the two of them, and she wondered if he'd remembered a girl from his past. But she didn't let it bother her. Not on a sunny winter day like this, with Jason next to her. "We'll figure it out," she promised. He looked at her hesitantly, like he wanted very much to believe her. "Annabeth and Rachel are coming in for the meeting tonight. I should probably wait until then to explain _" "Okay." She plucked a blade of grass by her foot. She knew there were dangerous things in store for both of them. She would have to compete with Jason's past, and they might not even survive their war against the giants. But right now, they were both alive, and she was determined to enjoy this moment. Jason studied her warily. His forearm tattoo was faint blue in the sunlight. "You're in a good mood. How can you be so sure things will work out?" "Because you're going to lead us," she said simply. "I'd follow you anywhere." Jason blinked. Then slowly, he smiled. "Dangerous thing to say." "I'm a dangerous girl." "That, I believe." He got up and brushed off his shorts. He offered her a hand. "Leo says he's got something to show us out in the woods. You coming?" "Wouldn't miss it." She took his hand and stood up. For a moment, they kept holding hands. Jason tilted his head. "We should get going." "Yep," she said. "Just a sec." She let go of his hand, and took a card from her pocket -the silver calling card that Thalia had given her for the Hunters of Artemis. She dropped it into a nearby eternal fire and watched it burn. There would be no breaking hearts in Aphrodite cabin from now on. That was one rite of passage they didn't need. Across the green, her cabinmates looking disappointed that they hadn't witnessed a kiss. They started cashing in their bets. But that was all right. Piper was patient, and she could see lots of good possibilities. "Let's go," she told Jason. "We've got adventures to plan." LEO HADN'T FELT THIS JUMPY SINCE HE offered tofu burgers to the werewolves. When he got to the limestone cliff in the forest, he turned to the group and smiled nervously. "Here we go." He willed his hand to catch fire, and set it against the door. His cabinmates gasped. "Leo!" Nyssa cried. "You're a fire user!" "Yeah, thanks," he said. "I know." Jake Mason, who was out of his body cast but still on crutches, said, "Holy Hephaestus. That means-it's so rare that-" The massive stone door swung open, and everyone's mouth dropped. Leo's flaming hand seemed insignificant now. Even Piper and Jason looked stunned, and they'd seen enough amazing things lately. Only Chiron didn't look surprised. The centaur knit his bushy eyebrows and stroked his beard, as if the group was about to walk through a minefield. That made Leo even more nervous, but he couldn't change his mind now. His instincts told him he was meant to share this place-at least with the Hephaestus cabin-and he couldn't hide it from Chiron or his two best friends. "Welcome to Bunker Nine," he said, as confidently as he could. "C'mon in." The group was silent as they toured the facility. Everything was just as Leo had left it-giant machines, worktables, old maps and schematics. Only one thing had changed. Festus's head was sitting on the central table, still battered and scorched from his final crash inOmaha. Leo went over to it, a bitter taste in his mouth, and stroked the dragon's forehead. "I'm sorry, Festus. But Iwon't forget you. " Jason put a hand on Leo's shoulder. "Hephaestus brought it here for you?" Leo nodded. "But you can't repair him," Jason guessed. "No way," Leo said. "But the head is going to be reused. Festus will be going with us." Piper came over and frowned. "What do you mean?" Before Leo could answer, Nyssa cried out, "Guys, look at this!" She was standing at one of the worktables, flipping through a sketchbook-diagrams for hundreds of different machines and weapons. "I've never seen anything like these," Nyssa said. "There are more amazing ideas here than in Daedalus's workshop. It would take a century just to prototype them all." "Who built this place?" Jake Mason said. "And why?" Chiron stayed silent, but Leo focused on the wall map he'd seen during his first visit. It showed Camp Half-Blood with a line of triremes in the Sound, catapults mounted in the hills around the valley, and spots marked for traps, trenches, and ambush sites. "It's a wartime command center," he said. "The camp was attacked once, wasn't it?" "In the Titan War?" Piper asked. Nyssa shook her head. "No. Besides, that map looks really old. The date _ does that say 1864?" They all turned to Chiron. The centaur's tail swished fretfully. "This camp has been attacked many times," he admitted. "That map is from the last Civil War." Apparently, Leo wasn't the only one confused. The other Hephaestus campers looked at each other and frowned. "Civil War _" Piper said. "You mean the American Civil War, like a hundred and fifty years ago?" "Yes and no," Chiron said. "The two conflicts-mortal and demigod-mirrored each other, as they usually do in Western history. Look at any civil war or revolution from the fall of Rome onward, and it marks a time when demigods also fought one another. But that Civil War was particularly horrible. For American mortals, it is still their bloodiest conflict of all time -worse than their casualties in the two World Wars. For demigods, it was equally devastating. Even back then, this valley was Camp Half-Blood. There was a horrible battle in these woods lasting for days, with terrible losses on both sides." "Both sides," Leo said. "You mean the camp split apart?" "No," Jason spoke up. "He means two different groups. Camp Half-Blood was one side in the war." Leo wasn't sure he wanted an answer, but he asked, "Who was the other?" Chiron glanced up at the tattered bunker 9 banner, as if remembering the day it was raised. "The answer is dangerous," he warned. "It is something I swore upon the River Styx never to speak of. After the American Civil War, the gods were so horrified by the toll it took on their children, that they swore it would never happen again. The two groups were separated. The gods bent all their will, wove the Mist as tightly as they could, to make sure the enemies never remembered each other, never met on their quests, so that bloodshed could be avoided. This map is fromthe final dark days of 1864, the last time the two groups fought. We've had several close calls since then. The nineteen sixties were particularly dicey. But we've managed to avoid another civil war-at least so far. Just as Leo guessed, this bunker was a command center for the Hephaestus cabin. In the last century, it has been reopened a few times, usually as a hiding place in times of great unrest. But coming here is dangerous. It stirs old memories, awakens the old feuds. Even when the Titans threatened last year, I did not think it worth the risk to use this place." Suddenly Leo's sense of triumph turned to guilt. "Hey, look, this place found me. It was meant to happen. It's a good thing." "I hope you're right," Chiron said. "I am!" Leo pulled the old drawing out of his pocket and spread it on the table for everyone to see. "There," he said proudly. "Aeolus returned that to me. I drew it when Iwas five. That's my destiny." Nyssa frowned. "Leo, it's a crayon drawing of a boat." "Look." He pointed at the largest schematic on the bulletin board-the blueprint showing a Greek trireme. Slowly, his cabinmates' eyes widened as they compared the two designs. The number of masts and oars, even the decorations on the shields and sails were exactly the same as on Leo's drawing. "That's impossible," Nyssa said. "That blueprint has to be a century old at least." "'Prophecy-Unclear-Flight,'" Jake Mason read fromthe notes on the blueprint. "It's a diagram for a flying ship. Look, that's the landing gear. And weaponry-Holy Hephaestus: rotating ballista, mounted crossbows, Celestial bronze plating. That thing would be one spankin' hot war machine. Was it ever made?" "Not yet," Leo said. "Look at the masthead." There was no doubt-the figure at the front of the ship was the head of a dragon.A very particular dragon. "Festus," Piper said. Everyone turned and looked at the dragon's head sitting on the table. "He's meant to be our masthead," Leo said. "Our good luck charm, our eyes at sea. I'm supposed to build this ship. I'm gonna call it the Argo II.And guys, I'll need your help." "The Argo II." Piper smiled. "After Jason's ship." Jason looked a little uncomfortable, but he nodded. "Leo's right. That ship is just what we need for our journey." "What journey?" Nyssa said. "You just got back!" Piper ran her fingers over the old crayon drawing. "We've got to confront Porphyrion, the giant king. He said he would destroy the gods at their roots." "Indeed," Chiron said. "Much of Rachel's Great Prophecy is still a mystery to me, but one thing is clear. You three -Jason, Piper, and Leo-are among the seven demigods who must take on that quest. You must confront the giants in their homeland, where they are strongest. You must stop thembefore they can wake Gaea fully, before they destroy Mount Olympus." "Um _" Nyssa shifted. "You don't mean Manhattan, do you?" " N o," L e o s aid. " T h e o rigin al M o u n t Oly m p u s. W e h a ve t o s ail t o G r e e c e." IT TOOK A FEW MINUTES FOR THAT TO settle in. Then the other Hephaestus campers started asking questions all at once. Who were the other four demigods? How long would it take to build the boat? Why didn't everyone get to go to Greece? "Heroes!" Chiron struck his hoof on the floor. "All the details are not clear yet, but Leo is correct. He will need your help to build the Argo II. It is perhaps the greatest project Cabin Nine has even undertaken, even greater than the bronze dragon." "It'll take a year at least," Nyssa guessed. "Do we have that much time?" "You have six months at most," Chiron said. "You should sail by summer solstice, when the gods' power is strongest. Besides, we evidently cannot trust the wind gods, and the summer winds are the least powerful and easiest to navigate. You dare not sail any later, or you may be too late to stop the giants. You must avoid ground travel, using only air and sea, so this vehicle is perfect. Jason being the son of the sky god _" His voice trailed off, but Leo figured Chiron was thinking about his missing student, Percy Jackson, the son of Poseidon. He would've been good on this voyage, too. Jake Mason turned to Leo. "Well, one thing's for sure. You are now senior counselor. This is the biggest honor the cabin has ever had.Anyone object?" Nobody did. All his cabinmates smiled at him, and Leo could almost feel their cabin's curse breaking, their sense of hopelessness melting away. "It's official, then," Jake said. "You're the man." For once, Leo was speechless. Ever since his mom died, he'd spent his life on the run. Now he'd found a home and a family. He'd found a job to do. And as scary as it was, Leo wasn't tempted to run-not even a little. "Well," he said at last, "if you guys elect me leader, you must be even crazier than I am. So let's build a spankin' hot war machine!" JASONWAITEDALONEINCABINONE. Annabeth and Rachel were due any minute for the head counselors' meeting, and Jason needed time to think. His dreams the night before had been worse than he'd wanted to share-even with Piper. His memory was still foggy, but bits and pieces were coming back. The night Lupa had tested him at the Wolf House, to decide if he would be a pup or food. Then the long trip south to _ he couldn't remember, but he had flashes of his old life. The day he'd gotten his tattoo. The day he'd been raised on a shield and proclaimed a praetor. His friends' faces: Dakota, Gwendolyn, Hazel, Bobby. And Reyna. Definitely there'd been a girl named Reyna. He wasn't sure what she'd meant to him, but the memory made him question what he felt about Piper-and wonder if he was doing something wrong. The problem was, he liked Piper a lot. Jason moved his stuff to the corner alcove where his sister had once slept. He put Thalia's photograph back on the wall so had once slept. He put Thalias photograph back on the wall so he didn't feel alone. He stared up at the frowning statue of Zeus, mighty and proud, but the statue didn't scare himanymore. It just made him feel sad. "I know you can hear me," Jason said to the statue. The statue said nothing. Its painted eyes seemed to stare at him. "I wish I could talk with you in person," Jason continued, "but I understand you can't do that. The Roman gods don't like to interact with mortals so much, and-well, you're the king. You've got to set an example." More silence. Jason had hoped for something-a bigger than usual rumble of thunder, a bright light, a smile. No, never mind.A smile would've been creepy. "I remember some things," he said. The more he talked, the less self-conscious he felt. "I remember that it's hard being a son of Jupiter. Everyone is always looking at me to be a leader, but I always feel alone. I guess you feel the same way up on Olympus. The other gods challenge your decisions. Sometimes you've got to make hard choices, and the others criticize you. And you can't come to my aid like other gods might. You've got to keep me at a distance so it doesn't look like you're playing favorites. I guess I just wanted to say _" Jason took a deep breath. "I understand all that. It's okay. I'm going to try to do my best. I'll try to make you proud. But I could really use some guidance, Dad. If there's anything you can do-help me so I can help my friends. I'm afraid I'll get them killed. I don't know how to protect them." The back of his neck tingled. He realized someone was standing behind him. He turned and found a woman in a black hooded robe, with a goatskin cloak over her shoulders and a sheathed Roman sword-a gladius-in her hands. "Hera," he said. She pushed back her hood. "To you, I have always been Juno. And your father has already sent you guidance, Jason. He sent you Piper and Leo. They're not just your responsibility. They are also your friends. Listen to them, and you will do well." "Did Jupiter send you here to tell me that?" "No one sends me anywhere, hero," she said. "I am not a messenger." "But you got me into this. Why did you send me to this camp?" "I think you know," Juno said. "An exchange of leaders was necessary. It was the only way to bridge to gap." "I didn't agree to it." "No. But Zeus gave your life to me, and I am helping you fulfill your destiny." Jason tried to control his anger. He looked down at his orange camp shirt and the tattoos on his arm, and he knewthese things should not go together. He had become a contradiction-a mixture as dangerous as anything Medea could cook up. "You're not giving me all my memories," he said. "Even though you promised." "Most will return in time," Juno said. "But you must find your own way back. You need these next months with your newfriends, your new home. You're gaining their trust. By the time you sail in your ship, you will be a leader at this camp. And you will be ready to be a peacemaker between two great powers." "What if you're not telling the truth?" he asked. "What if you're doing this to cause another civil war?" Juno's expression was impossible to read-amusement? Disdain? Affection? Possibly all three. As much as she appeared human, Jason knew she was not. He could still see that blinding light-the true form of the goddess that had seared itself into his brain. She was Juno and Hera. She existed in many places at once. Her reasons for doing something were never simple. "I am the goddess of family," she said. "My family has been divided for too long." "They divided us so we don't kill each other," Jason said. "That seems like a pretty good reason." "The prophecy demands that we change. The giants will rise. Each can only be killed by a god and demigod working together. Those demigods must be the seven greatest of the age. As it stands, they are divided between two places. If we remain divided, we cannot win. Gaea is counting on this. You must unite the heroes of Olympus and sail together to meet the giants on the ancient battlegrounds of Greece. Only then will the gods be convinced to join you. It will be the most dangerous quest, the most important voyage, ever attempted by the children of the gods." Jason looked up again at the glowering statue of his father. "It's not fair," Jason said. "I could ruin everything." "You could," Juno agreed. "But gods need heroes. We always have." "Even you? I thought you hated heroes." The goddess gave him a dry smile. "I have that reputation. But if you want the truth, Jason, I often envy other gods their mortal children. You demigods can span both worlds. I think this helps your godly parents-even Jupiter, curse him-to understand the mortal world better than I." Juno sighed so unhappily that despite his anger, Jason almost felt sorry for her. "I am the goddess of marriage," she said. "It is not in my nature to be faithless. I have only two godly children-Ares and Hephaestus-both of whom are disappointments. I have no mortal heroes to do my bidding, which is why I am so often bitter toward demigods-Heracles, Aeneas, all of them. But it is also why I favored the first Jason, a pure mortal, who had no godly parent to guide him. And why I am glad Zeus gave you to me. You will be my champion, Jason. You will be the greatest of heroes, and bring unity to the demigods, and thus to Olympus." Her words settled over him, as heavy as sandbags. Two days ago, he'd been terrified by the idea of leading demigods into a Great Prophecy, sailing off to battle the giants and save the world. He was still terrified, but something had changed. He no longer felt alone. He had friends now, and a home to fight for. He even had a patron goddess looking out for him, which had to count for something, even if she seemed a little untrustworthy. Jason had to stand up and accept his destiny, just as he had done when he faced Porphyrion with his bare hands. Sure, it seemed impossible. He might die. But his friends were counting on him. "And if I fail?" he asked. "Great victory requires great risk," she admitted. "Fail, and there will be bloodshed like we have never seen. Demigods will destroy one another. The giants will overrun Olympus. Gaea will wake, and the earth will shake off everything we have built over five millennia. It will be the end of us all." "Great. Just great." Someone pounded on the cabin doors. Juno pulled her hood back over her face. Then she handed Jason the sheathed gladius. "Take this for the weapon you lost. We will speak again. Like it or not, Jason, I am your sponsor, and your link to Olympus. We need each other." The goddess vanished as the doors creaked open, and Piper walked in. "Annabeth and Rachel are here," she said. "Chiron has summoned the council." THECOUNCIL WAS NOTHINGLIKE Jason imagined. For one thing, it was in the Big House rec room, around a Ping-Pong table, and one of the satyrs was serving nachos and sodas. Somebody had brought Seymour the leopard head in from the living roomand hung him on the wall. Every once in a while, a counselor would toss him a Snausage. Jason looked around the room and tried to remember everyone's name. Thankfully, Leo and Piper were sitting next to him-it was their first meeting as senior counselors. Clarisse, leader of the Ares cabin, had her boots on the table, but nobody seemed to care. Clovis from Hypnos cabin was snoring in the corner while Butch from Iris cabin was seeing how many pencils he could fit in Clovis's nostrils. Travis Stoll from Hermes was holding a lighter under a Ping-Pong ball to see if it would burn, and Will Solace from Apollo was absently wrapping and unwrapping an Ace bandage around his wrist. The counselor from Hecate cabin, Lou Ellen something-or- other, was playing "got-your-nose" with Miranda Gardiner fromDemeter, except that Lou Ellen really h a d magically disconnected Miranda's nose, and Miranda was trying to get it back. Jason had hoped Thalia would show. She'd promised, after all-but she was nowhere to be seen. Chiron had told himnot to worry about it. Thalia often got sidetracked fighting monsters or running quests for Artemis, and she would probably arrive soon. But still, Jason worried. Rachel Dare, the oracle, sat next to Chiron at the head of the table. She was wearing her Clarion Academy school uniform dress, which seemed a bit odd, but she smiled at Jason. Annabeth didn't look so relaxed. She wore armor over her camp clothes, with her knife at her side and her blond hair pulled back in a ponytail. As soon as Jason walked in, she fixed him with an expectant look, as if she were trying to extract information out of him by sheer willpower. "Let's come to order," Chiron said. "Lou Ellen, please give Miranda her nose back. Travis, if you'd kindly extinguish the flaming Ping-Pong ball, and Butch, I think twenty pencils is really too many for any human nostril. Thank you. Now, as you can see, Jason, Piper, and Leo have returned successfully_more or less. Some of you have heard parts of their story, but I will let them fill you in." Everyone looked at Jason. He cleared his throat and began the story. Piper and Leo chimed in from time to time, filling in the details he forgot. It only took a few minutes, but it seemed like longer with everyone watching him. The silence was heavy, and for so many ADHD demigods to sit still listening for that long, Jason knew the story must have sounded pretty wild. He ended with Hera's visit right before the meeting. "So Hera was here," Annabeth said. "Talking to you." Jason nodded. "Look, I'm not saying I trust her-" "That's smart," Annabeth said. "-but she isn't making this up about another group of demigods. That's where I came from." "Romans." Clarisse tossed Seymour a Snausage. "You expect us to believe there's another camp with demigods, but they follow the Roman forms of the gods. And we've never even heard of them." Piper sat forward. "The gods have kept the two groups apart, because every time they see each other, they try to kill each other." "I can respect that," Clarisse said. "Still, why haven't we ever run across each other on quests?" "Oh, yes," Chiron said sadly. "You have, many times. It's always a tragedy, and always the gods do their best to wipe clean the memories of those involved. The rivalry goes all the way back to the Trojan War, Clarisse. The Greeks invaded Troy and burned it to the ground. The Trojan hero Aeneas escaped, and eventually made his way to Italy, where he founded the race that would someday become Rome. The Romans grewmore and more powerful, worshipping the same gods but under different names, and with slightly different personalities." "More warlike," Jason said. "More united. More about expansion, conquest, and discipline." "Yuck," Travis put in. Several of the others looked equally uncomfortable, though Clarisse shrugged like it sounded okay to her. Annabeth twirled her knife on the table. "And the Romans hated the Greeks. They took revenge when they conquered the Greek isles, and made them part of the Roman Empire." "Not exactly hated them," Jason said. "The Romans admired Greek culture, and were a little jealous. In return, the Greeks thought the Romans were barbarians, but they respected their military power. So during Roman times, demigods started to divide-either Greek or Roman." "And it's been that way ever since," Annabeth guessed. "But this is crazy. Chiron, where were the Romans during the Titan War? Didn't they want to help?" Chiron tugged at his beard. "They did help, Annabeth. While you and Percy were leading the battle to save Manhattan, who do think conquered Mount Othrys, the Titans' base in California?" "Hold on," Travis said. "You said Mount Othrys just crumbled when we beat Kronos." "No," Jason said. He remembered flashes of the battle-a giant in starry armor and a helm mounted with ram's horns. He remembered his army of demigods scaling Mount Tam, fighting through hordes of snake monsters. "It didn't just fall. We destroyed their palace. I defeated the Titan Krios myself." Annabeth's eyes were as stormy as a ventus. Jason could almost see her thoughts moving, putting the pieces together. "The Bay Area. We demigods were always told to stay away from it because Mount Othrys was there. But that wasn't the only reason, was it? The Roman camp-it's got to be somewhere near San Francisco. I bet it was put there to keep watch on the Titans' territory. Where is it?" Chiron shifted in his wheelchair. "I cannot say. Honestly, even I have never been trusted with that information. My counterpart, Lupa, is not exactly the sharing type. Jason's memory, too, has been burned away." "The camp's heavily veiled with magic," Jason said. "And heavily guarded. We could search for years and never find it." Rachel Dare laced her fingers. Of all the people in the room, only she didn't seem nervous about the conversation. "But you'll try, won't you? You'll build Leo's boat, the Argo II. And before you make for Greece, you'll sail for the Roman camp. You'll need their help to confront the giants." "Bad plan," Clarisse warned. "If those Romans see a warship coming, they'll assume we're attacking." "You're probably right," Jason agreed. "But we have to try. I was sent here to learn about Camp Half-Blood, to try to convince you the two camps don't have to be enemies. A peace offering." "Hmm," Rachel said. "Because Hera is convinced we need both camps to win the war with the giants. Seven heroes of Olympus-some Greek, some Roman." Annabeth nodded. "Your Great Prophecy-what's the last line?" "And foes bear arms to the Doors of Death." "Gaea has opened the Doors of Death," Annabeth said. "She's letting out the worst villains of the Underworld to fight us. Medea, Midas-there'll be more, I'm sure. Maybe the line means that the Roman and Greek demigods will unite, and find the doors, and close them." "Or it could mean they fight each other at the doors of death," Clarisse pointed out. "It doesn't say we'll cooperate." There was silence as the campers let that happy thought sink in. "I'm going," Annabeth said. "Jason, when you get this ship built, let me go with you." "I was hoping you'd offer," Jason said. "You of all people -we'll need you." "Wait." Leo frowned. "I mean that's cool with me and all. But whyAnnabeth of all people?" Annabeth and Jason studied one another, and Jason knew she had put it together. She saw the dangerous truth. "Hera said my coming here was an exchange of leaders," Jason said. "A way for the two camps to learn of each other's existence." "Yeah?" Leo said. "So?" "An exchange goes two ways," Jason said. "When I got here, my memory was wiped. I didn't know who I was or where I belonged. Fortunately, you guys took me in and I found a newhome. I know you're not my enemy. The Roman camp-they're not so friendly. You prove your worth quickly, or you don't survive. They may not be so nice to him, and if they learn where he comes from, he's going to be in serious trouble." "Him?" Leo said. "Who are you talking about?" "My boyfriend," Annabeth said grimly. "He disappeared around the same time Jason appeared. If Jason came to Camp Half-Blood-" "Exactly," Jason agreed. "Percy Jackson is at the other camp, and he probably doesn't even remember who he is." Gods in The Lost Hero Aeolus The Greek god of the winds. Roman form:Aeolus Aphrodite The Greek goddess of love and beauty. She was marred to Hephaestus, but she loved Ares, the god of war. Roman form: Venus Apollo The Greek god of the sun, prophecy, music, and healing; the son of Zeus, and the twin of Artemis. Roman form: Apollo Ares The Greek god of war; the son of Zeus and Hera, and half brother to Athena. Roman form: Mars Artemis The Greek goddess of the hunt and the moon; the daughter of Zeus and the twin ofApollo. Roman form: Diana Boreas The Greek god of the north wind, one of the four directional anemoi (wind gods); the god of winter; father of Khione. Roman form:Aquilon Demeter The Greek goddess of agriculture, a daughter of the Titans Rhea and Kronos. Roman form: Ceres Dionysus The Greek god of wine; the son of Zeus. Roman form: Bacchus Gaea The Greek personification of Earth. Roman form: Terra Hades According to Greek mythology, ruler of the Underworld and god of the dead. Roman form: Pluto Hecate The Greek goddess of magic; the only child of the Titans Perses and Asteria. Roman form: Trivia Hephaestus The Greek god of fire and crafts and of blacksmiths; the son of Zeus and Hera, and married to Aphrodite. Roman form: Vulcan Hera The Greek goddess of marriage; Zeus's wife and sister. Roman form: Juno Hermes The Greek god of travelers, communication, and thieves; son of Zeus. Roman form: Mercury Hypnos The Greek god of sleep; the (fatherless) son of Nyx (Night) and brother of Thanatos (Death). Roman form: Somnus Iris The Greek goddess of the rainbow, and a messenger of the gods; the daughter of Thaumas and Electra. Roman form: Iris Janus The Roman god of gates, doors, and doorways, as well as beginnings and endings. Khione The Greek goddess of snow; daughter of Boreas Notus The Greek god of the south wind, one of the four directional anemoi (wind gods). Roman form: Favonius Ouranos The Greek personification of the sky. Roman form: Uranus Pan The Greek god of the wild; the son of Hermes. Roman form: Faunus Pompona The Roman goddess of plenty Poseidon The Greek god of the sea; son of the Titans Kronos and Rhea, and brother of Zeus and Hades. Roman form: N e p t u n e Ze u s T h e G r e e k g o d o f t h e s k y a n d kin g o f t h e g o d s. R o m a n fo r m: J u pit e r Coming Fall 2011 The Heroes of Olympus, Book Two THE SON OF NEPTUNE Praise for The Percy Jackson Series by Rick Riordan: The Lightning Thief "Perfectly paced, with electrifying moments chasing each other like heartbeats." -The NewYork Times Book Review The Sea of Monsters "In a feat worthy of his heroic subjects, Riordan crafts a sequel stronger than his compelling debut." -Publishers Weekly (starred review) The Titan's Curse "All in all, a winner of Olympic proportions." -School Library Journal The Battle of the Labyrinth "Look no further for the next Harry Potter; meet Percy Jackson, as legions of fans already have." -Kirkus Reviews (starred review) The Last Olympian "The hordes of young readers who have devoured Rick Riordan's books _ will no doubt gulp down this concluding volume as greedily as they would a plateful of ambrosia, or maybe pizza." -The Wall Street Journal Praise for The Kane Chronicles Book 1: The Red Pyramid by Rick Riordan: "The first volume in the Kane Chronicles, this fantasy adventure delivers what fans loved about the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series: young protagonists with previously unsuspected magical powers, a riveting story marked by headlong adventure, a complex background rooted in ancient mythology, and wry, witty twenty-first-century narration." -ALABooklist (starred review) "Riordan fans young and old will eat this new book up." -The NewYork Times Book Review "Fans of the Riordan magic-equal parts danger, myth, and irreverence-will embrace this new series with open arms." -Horn Book "This tale explodes into action from chapter one_ Readers pining for Percy Jackson will find new heroes in Carter and Sadie Kane." -Kirkus Reviews "Once again, Riordan masterfully meshes modern life with mythology and history, reinvigorating dusty artifacts such as the Rosetta stone and revitalizing ancient Egyptian story lines." -The LosAngeles Times "A truly original take on Egyptian mythology _ A must-have book." -School Library Journal (starred review) "For anyone who was afraid he couldn't top his Percy Jackson series or his initial title in the 39 Clues, fear no more. Riordan mined Greek myths for the lineage of his campers at HalfBlood. Now he drills into the depths of Egyptian history and lore for the page-turning Kane Chronicles. Riordan has a field day _ imparting Egyptian history as he weaves his spellbinding tale. Plenty of humor keeps things light_ Readers will be clamoring for the next installment." -ShelfAwareness About theAuthor Rick Riordan is the author of the New York Times #1 bestselling The Kane Chronicles, Book One: The Red Pyramid, as well as all the books in the New York Times #1 best-selling Percy Jackson and the Olympians series: The Lightning Thief; The Sea of Monsters; The Titan's Curse; The Battle of the Labyrinth; and The Last Olympian. His previous novels for adults include the hugely popular Tres Navarre series, winner of the top three awards in the mystery genre. He lives in San Antonio, Texas, with his wife and two sons. To learn more about Rick, visit his Web site at www. rickriordan.com.
